To the Editor:

As a child, I occasionally played board games with my family.  The game of choice seemed to be Monopoly, that old American classic, and I also played Risk a few times with friends.

I have fond memories of these experiences:  sitting around a table with people I loved;  talking, laughing, and playing together for an extended period of time.

Returning to these games as an adult, I have found them to be disappointing.  

First, they can take forever to play.  I have seen games of Monopoly consume entire evenings and Risk drag on for several days.  The second problem is more serious:  some players get knocked out of the game long before it ends.  They are left to sit and watch the others play, which is no fun at all.  

For a while, I believed that board games simply weren't practical anymore, but last year I made a wonderful discovery.

Across the Atlantic, German designers have been inventing some incredibly interesting and entertaining board games.  These games are so different and so clever, especially compared to our beloved Monopoly, that people cannot help but smile when they so much as read the rules.  What about the practical issues?

First, each game has some mechanism that causes it end in a reasonable amount of time.  In fact, each game box is stamped with a time estimate, usually between one and two hours.  Second, all players remain in the game, and keep playing, until the very end.

Hundreds of German games have been translated in English for release in the States, and they are still being manufactured in Germany or the U.S.A. with wooden components and quality printing.  Yes, German games are a bit more expensive, perhaps around $40 each, but they are still $20 cheaper than PlayStation3 games.

To start, you should try the most popular game that you have probably never heard of:  The Settlers of Catan.  It's easy to learn, highly interactive, and very entertaining.  The website Funagain.com is a good source for game descriptions and reviews.  You'll find that The Settlers of Catan is just the tip of the iceberg.

After reading a bit, you should visit the locally-owned game store in downtown Potsdam (on Main St. near Videorama).  Tim stocks Catan and a few other German games, and he can special-order almost any game.

So, The Settlers of Catan is a $40, U.S.A.-made gift idea that can be bought from a local merchant.  It's not electronic, and it will bring your family and friends together for two hours of face-to-face social time over and over.  Hard to believe such a thing still exists, isn't it?

Jason Rohrer
Potsdam





