Dad:

I am going to say some things to you that I've never said before.

[what you did to me]

When I was growing up, you periodically lost control and launched into fits of rage.  You screamed.  You stormed around the room.  You threatened me with physical violence, either through your body language (backing me up against the wall, for example) or through your words ("You may be taller than me now, son, but I can still clean your clock.")

Your rage attacks seemed to become more severe as I grew from a young teen into a young adult.  Also during this transition, your general level of affection toward me declined.  It seemed like you approved of my choices less, and liked me as a person less, as I grew older.  Perhaps this started when, as a young teen, I decided not to "take over Rohrer Corporation someday."  You would bring up this particular mis-choice of mine for years ("Well, you have no interest in the company." or "Scientists don't make very much money.")

You also seemed generally disappointed as I developed my own interests.  As I grew from your beloved fishing and airport buddy into a writer, musician, artist, and computer enthusiast, you acted like my changing interests were a personal rejection of you.  I was not growing up to be the son you had been dreaming about.

Throughout my childhood, and especially as I grew older, you tried to control my life choices by threatening to withhold your wealth or resources.  The common phrasing seemed to be, "If you ever _____, you're out of the will," where the blank was filled in with something like "get a tattoo," "get your ear pierced," "play in a rock band," "ride a motorcycle," "date a black girl," etc.  You also put a limit on my education and career options.  For example, you made it clear that you wouldn't pay for college if I wanted to study art.  Once I was in college, the common threat was that you would take away the car.

[how I felt at the time]

At the time, as I was growing up, I felt terrified by your outbursts of rage.  As I grew older, I also started feeling angry at you, especially when you had an outburst in a social setting.  

I also felt hurt by the gradual loss of affection and approval.  As it happened, this pain was never enough to cause me to change my mind or reverse my choices---my drives were too strong for that.  Instead, I simply grew to like you less and less, and our relationship deteriorated.

[how it affected my life]

The experience of your rage continues to haunt me to to this day.  I still have nightmares from time to time about you trying to kill me, or about me killing you to defend myself or my family.

The approval and control issue has also had a profound effect on my life as I strive to simultaneously establish my independence from your control and somehow still win your approval.

[what I want from you now]

Many people make excuses for you and claim that you can't help your behavior.  You had a bad childhood with an abusive father, after all.  However, you were responsible for your own behavior as an adult.  You could have sought help to gain control of your anger.  You could have sought help to learn how to be a supportive parent to a child who makes choices that differ from your plans and dreams for that child.  You could have sought help to learn how to let go of control over a child that grows into an adult.

Of course, that it all in the past, and it is too late to fix that now.  However, it is not too late to apologize.  I want you to apologize.

I also want you to improve yourself now so that you can promise me that I will never experience an outburst of rage from you again.  I've heard that you have sought some help for your depression and anger.  However, I've also heard that you had another rage outburst directed at Jackie in January 2007 after we left town.  Thus, whatever help you have received was apparently not sufficient.  I am concerned for Jackie, and I understand how emotionally damaging these rage outbursts are for her, but this is a letter about me, not about Jackie.  Thus, I'm bringing her up only to point out that, if you can still launch into rage against her, you cannot yet guarantee that you will never again launch into rage against me or my family.  I want you to work on yourself, with whatever help is necessary, until you know that your rage is a thing of the past.  I want you to let me know what you are doing to deal with your rage and keep me posted of the progress that you are making.

When I look at my life, as I round out my 30th year, I have a lot to be happy about.  I have a supportive and loving spouse, a wonderful child, many close friends, a sufficient house, a beautiful community, and work that I feel proud to be doing.  I go through day after day and week after week here with no unpleasant interactions with anyone.  The only wound in my life---the only thing that isn't right---is my relationship with my parents.  I've realized that my relationship with you, Dad, is clouded by all of this baggage from the past.  Every time I'm around you, I'm jabbed by the memories of your rage and your attempts to control me.  Thus, I generally avoid being around you and focus on interactions with others whenever you are present.

I would like to move past this with you---to get to the point again where I can spend an extended period of time with you without either of us feeling uncomfortable.  I hope we can move in this direction.  I've told you what I want from you.  Please let me know if there's anything that I can do to help improve our relationship.


Jason
