

						Jason Rohrer
						93 Elm St.
						Potsdam, NY 13676

						February 3, 2006



I just finished reading _The FairTax Book_ by Neal Boortz and Congressman John Linder.  I think the FairTax is a great way to simplify our federal tax system witout changing the total amount of revenue that our government brings in.

In essence, the Fair Tax Act of 2005 (H.R. 25 and S. 25) repeals all income taxes, payroll taxes (both Social Security and Medicare) investment taxes, corporate taxes, estate taxes, and gift taxes.  The Act replaces all of these taxes with a national sales tax on all goods and services at the retail level.  "Goods and services" include things like food, clothing, appliance, cars, houses, haircuts, medical care, and auto repair.  To avoid multiple taxations, only new items will be taxed---used clothing, used cars, and used houses will be tax-free.  To match the current revenue levels of the federal government, the inclusive sales tax rate is estimated to be 23% (when you buy a coat for $100, the retailer keeps $77 and passes $23 on to the government).

To ensure that this new taxation is progressive, the plan also includes a monthly tax rebate check sent to each and every household (both rich and poor), where the rebate amount is calculated from the national poverty level for a household of that size.  For example, according to 2005 poverty levels, a family with two parents and two children would receive a monthly tax rebate check for $492.  This rebate is an estimate of how much this family would have paid in sales tax when buying the basic necessities of life for the month.  Thus, the necessities, up to the poverty level, are tax-free.      

I strongly support the idea of a tax on consumption instead of a tax on income.  This kind of taxation will tend to encourage hard work and production while discouraging excess consumption.  If we are still worried about progressivity, we should also observe that wealth is not really defined by how much money one earns, but instead by how much stuff one has.  Big houses, fancy cars, private planes, fine foods---all these purcahses would be subject to the FairTax.  This is a tax plan that actually rewards frugality, savings, and investment for the future.    
  
The core point, however, is that our current tax system is too complicated:  it feels like a tangled, inescapable web that has ensnared every single working American.  I know several people who are so intimidated by the tax regulations that they never file their federal returns, even when the IRS owes them a refund.  These are not wealthy people, but instead people who are struggling just to get by.  

In fact, it may well be the poor who are the most intimidated by the complexities of the tax system, and they certainly cannot afford to hire professionals to help them.  The wealthy, on the other hand, hire professional accountants each April to ensure that they get every possible deduction:  they miss not a single penny of the refund that the IRS owes them.

The FairTax simplifies our tax system dramatically, replacing tens of thousands of pages of tax code with a 130-page bill that is easy to understand.  This will elimiate the hidden cost of tax compliance (including individual time wasted and money spent to hire professionals) from our lives.

I just learned that two more representatives have become co-sponsors of the Fair Tax Act of 2005:  Spencer Bachus of Albama and John Sullivan of Oklahoma.  I hope you will demonstrate leadership in this area and step up as a co-sponsor of this bill yourself.

We all know something must be done about are tax system, which has clearly spun out of control.  I believe the FairTax is our best bet.  If we manage to enact it, my faith in our political system will be renewed.  If we fail to move on something so reasonable, sensible, and clear, is there really any hope left for us as a nation?

There are many people out there who hear about the FairTax and say, "Great idea, but we'll never get it passed."  My only response is this:  imagine, for a moment, if that assessment was accurate---what an incredibly bleak state of affairs.  It is up to you, Representative McHugh, to see that the FairTax becomes a reality.  You must show us that the pessimists are wrong.



						  Sincerely,
						  
						  Jason Rohrer