To the Editor:

Almost every property owner in the Village of Potsdam is concerned about village taxes.

But this letter is not yet another complaint about taxes.  Instead, I'm tackling one of the proposed solutions to our tax problem.  In fact, it's one of the most popular proposals:  expanding the tax base.

The idea is that if we had more properties to share the tax burden, we'd each pay a bit less.  So, the argument goes, let's bring in new tax payers, like Wal-Mart and Lowe's, and maybe a new housing development or light-industrial park.

The people who make this proposal haven't looked at the numbers.  I'm no accounting expert, but I do have a calculator, and I have some ballpark figures to share.

From what I've observed, the village General Fund budget grows by about 5% each year.  5% of the current budget is roughly $260,000.  Suppose we wanted to expand the tax base each year just enough to offset this budget growth (in other words, so taxes at least won't go up).  To get $260,000 of new tax revenue at the current $19 per thousand tax rate, we'd need new properties with a total assessed value of about $13 million.

Don't forget, that's $13 million worth of new development each year just to keep the taxes from going up---it wouldn't actually cut our tax bills at all.  To do that, we would need even more new development, maybe something like $20 million a year.

We shouldn't bet on $13 to $20 million of new growth per year.  Even Wal-Mart, which is the largest area development in recent years, is expected to have an assessment in the $8 million range.  So, if we want to reduce taxes through growth, we'll need the equivalent of two new Wal-Marts built in the village each year---not at all likely.

You might say, "But every little bit helps."  Yes, it does, but how much effort must we expend to get each little bit?  How many incentives must we offer, and how much will those incentives cost?  A large, new development results in an itty-bitty tax reduction.  We should put our time and energy in directions that are going to have the biggest payoff.

We must stop chasing the wild goose of "expanding the tax base" and start looking at other, more direct solutions to our tax problem, like reducing the village budget.

Jason Rohrer
Potsdam