To my parents:

We need some time apart from you.  We're happily living our life, and we generally have very little stress or strife, except when it seems to be coming from "my parents."

We are not asking for *any* advice about how to live or how to parent Mez.  No one else seems to be giving us this kind of advice or criticism.  Most of the people in our community believe in a simple principle:  "To each his or her own."  We are surrounded by people who leave parenting choices up to the parent.  As a simple, recent example, you seem to think that what we choose to discuss with Mez (every aspect of our life) and what we choose to hide from him (nothing) is your business.

Likewise, *you* are not asking *us* for advice.  I have generally tried to avoid giving you advice or criticizing your lifestyle choices.  However, I understand how some of *our* choices must seem to bear built-in criticism.  If we do not eat meat for ethical reasons, that must mean we think that people who eat meat are unethical.  If we eat organic produce for health reasons, that must mean we think that people who eat conventional produce are unhealthy.  If we avoid buying goods made in China for ethical reasons, that must mean we think that people who buy goods made in China are unethical.  In other words, if we avoid such-and-such, we must think badly of the people around us who do not avoid such-and-such.  We get this kind of self-judging reaction from certain people (i.e., people who feel judged from mere *exposure* to our choices), but unfortunately, there's nothing reasonable that we can do about it.  Either we change our lifestyle to avoid offending such people, or we stick with our convictions and move on.  

For example, you avoid riding motorcycles because you feel they are unsafe---imagine needing to ride a motorcycle now and again so that your motorcyclist friends feel less judged.  As another example, if offered a cigarette, you would certainly decline, regardless of the circumstances.  You can call this rigidity, but I'd rather call it conviction.

The best thing, I think, is to live by ones principles, respond honestly when asked ("why don't you guys eat meat?"), and otherwise keep ones mouth shut about it.

I have certainly slipped up in that latter department from time to time, most memorably in the recent discussion surrounding our dismissal from your house.  You attacked our lifestyle, and I, regrettably, attacked your lifestyle in return ("at least we don't fly around in a jet," etc.).  Of course, your choice of housing, transportation, and lifestyle are simply not our business.  I'm sorry for attacking back---I should have kept my mouth shut.

On the other hand, everyone has the right to avoid having house guests that offend ones sensibilities.  Everyone also has the right to avoid visiting houses that are overly offensive.  For example, if one hates the smell of cat urine, and if a friend's house reeks of cat urine due to the presence of a dozen cats, one can simply avoid visiting that house.  If the friend questions the avoidance, one can politely explain that the smell of cat urine is particularly offensive, and leave it at that.  

However, there is a big difference between explaining a dismissal/avoidance honestly ("your house smells") and trying to convince the person to change ("you need to get rid of those cats" or "you need to change their litter more frequently" or "the smell of ammonia results from the oxidation of blah blah blah and that's clearly nature's way of warning us about blah blah blah").  Keeping with the example, it is not ones business how many cats are kept or how frequently the litter is changed---those concerns are the friend's business.  Ones control extends only as far as ones own choices go---for example, the choice to continue visiting the catty house in question.  Also, the avoidance should not be a boycott---in other words, its goal should not be to convince the person to change ("I'm not coming to visit *until* you get rid of those cats").

In retrospect, you clearly had the right to dismiss us from your house if our presence offended you, but that choice also seemed to open the floodgates for your general criticism of our lifestyle (including issues that have nothing to do with our offensiveness as house guests, such as our compost pile or our meadow landscaping).


With all of that said, we will avoid contact with you because you feel that our lifestyle, parenting practices, and other adult choices are your business.

In the spirit of the above discussion, we are politely explaining our avoidance, not demanding that you change your ways.

Jason


P.S.  The thoughts expressed in this email differ substantially from those presented in the last email sent by Lauren, but we have done a lot of talking and thinking since then.  She has read this email and agrees with it.
