To the Editor:

In response to the Town of Potsdam's plea for a new Town Hall (Feb. 21-27):

The Town officials seem perplexed by the Village's rejection of their zoning proposal.  Why wouldn't the Village want to permit a government office on outer Lawrence Avenue, more than a mile away from the the heart of Downtown?

Maybe the Town should take a look at the Village's comprehensive plan.  On page 18 of that plan, the downtown area is described as "the centralized location of local government offices."  New York State law mandates that all zoning decisions be made in accordance with a municipality's comprehensive plan.

So, Town officials, there it is in black and white:  the Village didn't let you site your new office out there because they didn't want to break the law.

Now the Town is invoking municipal sovereignty to override the Village's decision.  That's a bold move, certainly, but we shouldn't let the controversy distract us from what's really going on:  the Town government is growing, and it wants to spend $1.5 million of our money to fund that growth.  Let's put that figure into perspective:  for 2007, the sum of all Town property taxes was less than $1.2 million.  They want to spend more on this building than they collect from us in a year.

The Town government has been in its current space, with a total of 5000 square feet, for more than 30 years.  Now the Town claims that it needs at least 11,000 square feet---more than double what it has used for decades.   What has changed during that time?  Are there more people to govern?  No.  In fact, the Town population has been declining gradually since the 1980s.

The Town says it needs room for more employees, a bigger jury room, a lunch room, an elevator, and public restrooms.  Take the jury room as an example:  a jury is no bigger today than it was 30 years ago, so why does it need more space?  Is it really impossible to add an elevator shaft and a restroom behind the existing building?  Could you do it for less than $1.5 million? 

Maybe the government does need more space.  The point is that Town officials shouldn't be the ones making this decision.  It's not their $1.5 million, it's our $1.5 million.

When the public school wants to spend our money on a new building, they ask our permission first.  If we vote "yes," they spend our money and build, and if we vote "no," they stick with what they've got.  Why should the decision about the Town building be any different?

We're the people.  It's our money.  Let us vote.

Jason Rohrer
Potsdam