To the Editor:

Regarding the Wal-Mart controversy, I have seen plenty of opinions flying back and forth, but very few facts.  I will try to buck that trend and present a few little-known facts---perhaps I can clear up some confusion.

Who is appealing the decision on the Wal-Mart lawsuit?  Is it CRG?

Fact 1:  Dr. Charles Duncan and his wife Evalyn are appealing.  Who are the Duncans?  They are next-door neighbors to the Wal-Mart site.  They have been living there for 59 years.  

Fact 2:  CRG has raised money for the Duncans, but CRG is not one of the appellants.

A recent Sound Off (April 11-17) said:  "as long as they [Wal-Mart] meet the zoning and environmental guidelines, in this free country they should be allowed to proceed."

Fact 3:  Wal-Mart's building would be partially located in a Residential-Agricultural (RA) zone.  

Fact 4:  The Tire and Lube Express portion of Wal-Mart would be in the RA zone.

Fact 5:  Auto shops are never permitted in an RA zone, not even by special exception.

Fact 6:  Wal-Mart's lube shop would be 146 feet from the Duncans' property, when the minimum setback is 200 feet.

Fact 7:  In 1986, the Town placed a Planned Development (PD) zoning overlay along the western leg of Route 11, all the way to the Canton boundary.  This overlay did not rezone the area, since the underlying zones (RA, Community Center, and Coordinated Development) are still present.  The overlay includes the Duncans' property and the Wal-Mart site.

Fact 8:  The Town has argued that the PD overlay permits Wal-Mart to build in the RA zone. 

Now I'll ask for your opinions.  Do you think Wal-Mart met the zoning guidelines?  Do you think a 24-hour superstore belongs in a Residential-Agricultural zone?  If the underlying RA zone no longer matters (because of the PD overlay), why is the RA zone still on the map?  

Would you want a Wal-Mart built next door to your house?  I want Matthew Keller, James Bullard, Richard Hutchinson, Ronald Schofell, and any members of We Welcome Wal-Mart to answer that question.  If you want this store so badly, why don't we put it next to your house?  Any volunteers?

Now I'll give one small opinion of my own:  I wouldn't want a Wal-Mart next to my house.  Fortunately, I live in a residential zone, so I don't need to worry about that---or do I?  Could the Village slap a PD-overlay on my residential zone, without officially rezoning it, and thereby permit Wal-Mart to build next door to me?  Yikes!  I hope not.

And finally, a request:  let's stop speculating about majority support, predicting downtown destruction, and moaning about affordable shopping.  Instead, let's argue about the Ducans' rights as property owners---after all, it's their appeal that is supposedly "blocking progress."

Jason Rohrer
Potsdam
