
Login
Store
Community
Support
Change language
View desktop website
© Valve Corporation. All rights reserved. All trademarks are property of their respective owners in the US and other countries. Privacy Policy  |  Legal  |  Steam Subscriber Agreement  |  Refunds
STORE
COMMUNITY
ABOUT
SUPPORT
Install Steam
login  |  language
Your Store
Games
Software
Hardware
News
All Games > Adventure Games > Tacoma
Community Hub
Tacoma
Tacoma is a sci-fi narrative adventure from the creators of Gone Home. Set aboard a high-tech space station in the year 2088, explore every detail of how the station’s crew lived and worked, finding the clues that add up to a gripping story of trust, fear, and resolve in the face of disaster.
Recent Reviews:
Very Positive (31)
All Reviews:
Very Positive (1,476)
Release Date:
Aug 1, 2017
Developer:
Fullbright	
Publisher:
Fullbright	
Popular user-defined tags for this product:
Walking Simulator Adventure Story Rich Sci-fi +
7:30 / 12:16
Autoplay videos

Sign in to add this item to your wishlist, follow it, or mark it as not interested
Is this game relevant to you?

Sign in to see reasons why you may or may not like this based on your games, friends, and curators you follow.

Sign in or Open in Steam
Single-player
Steam Achievements
Full controller support
Steam Trading Cards
Steam Cloud
Languages:
	Interface 	Full Audio 	Subtitles
English 	✔ 	✔ 	✔
French 	✔ 		✔
German 	✔ 		✔
Spanish - Spain 	✔ 		✔
Japanese 	✔ 		✔
See all 10 supported languages
Includes 12 Steam Achievements
[Punch-Out!!]
[Liberated]
[Therefore Art Thou]
View
all 12
Title: Tacoma
Genre: Adventure, Indie
Developer: Fullbright
Publisher: Fullbright	
Release Date: Aug 1, 2017

Visit the website
View update history
Read related news
View discussions
Find Community Groups
Share Embed  
76
metacritic
Read Critic Reviews
Awards
Finalist: Excellence in Narrative, Independent Games Festival

Finalist: Best Narrative, BAFTA Awards

Best Setting, PC Gamer Game of the Year Awards
Buy Tacoma
$19.99
Add to Cart
Buy Queer Games Bundle BUNDLE (?)

Buy this bundle to save 15% off all 7 items!
Bundle info
-15%
Your Price:
$93.43
Add to Cart
Buy The Fullbright Collection BUNDLE (?)

Buy this bundle to save 10% off all 2 items!
Bundle info
-10%
Your Price:
$31.48
Add to Cart
 
Recent updates View all (20)
October 29, 2018
Happy Halloween Sale! And-- A New Bundle Option!
Hi all!

As you can see, both Gone Home and Tacoma are discounted handily for Steam's Halloween sale! And today, we've set a new offer live-- the Fullbright Collection. If buy both of our games together, you'll now get a 15% discount on the total! Or, if you only own either Gone Home or Tacoma, Complete The Bundle to get 15% off the title you were missing-- and experience a gripping narrative you've been missing out on.


The Fullbright Collection! Now on discount in the Halloween Sale, and even better when you buy them together. Thanks for playing-- and don't forget to pass this on to that friend of yours you've been trying to get to play our stuff. There's never been a better time! Thanks for all you do,

-steve	
1 comments Read more
Reviews

“I got so caught up in the story, I found myself gasping out loud and putting my hands over my face. That’s how much I liked it.”
95 – Paste Magazine

“A mystery that grabs hold of you the instant your magnetic boots clamp to the station and never lets go... Immensely rewarding.”
84 – PC Gamer

“A story that's both gripping and emotional... The little details packed into the space station are touches of the sublime.”
90 – Destructoid
Commentary Mode Now Available!

We are proud to announce that Tacoma has been updated to include over TWO HOURS of audio commentary from the developers who helped bring the game to life! Just start a new game in Commentary Mode, or enable Commentary in the Gameplay options. Tacoma Station is now populated with dozens of Commentary icons, providing insight from the programmers, artists, writers, designers and more who made Tacoma happen. Thanks, and happy exploring!

READ MORE
About This Game
The Venturis Corporation wants their AI back. That’s where you come in.



Tacoma is a narrative adventure set aboard a high-tech space station in the year 2088. As you go about your mission, you’ll explore every detail of how the station’s crew lived and worked, finding the clues that add up to a gripping story of trust, fear, and resolve in the face of disaster.

At the heart of Tacoma is the facility’s digital surveillance system, which has captured 3D recordings of pivotal moments in the crew’s life on the station. As you explore, echoes of these captured moments surround you. You’ll use your ability to rewind, fast-forward, and move through the physical space of these complex, interwoven scenes to examine events from every angle, reconstructing the multi-layered narrative as you explore.

Tacoma is the next game from the creators of Gone Home, and carries on that tradition of detailed, immersive, and powerful storytelling, while pulling players deeper into the narrative than ever before.

Now featuring over two hours of Developer Audio Commentary! Just start a new game with Commentary enabled, or toggle it on in the Gameplay options.
Features:

A Richly Layered Story Experience:
Six crewmembers lived and worked on space station Tacoma, forming relationships, experiencing love and loss, and facing crisis together. Discover not just what happened to these people, but what makes them who they are, through your role as an interactive investigator. The story is told through a series of fully voiced and animated interactive AR scenes, immersing you in the events on Tacoma.

A Groundbreaking Multi-Path Story System:
In each section of the station, you are surrounded by digital representations of crewmembers following their own parallel story threads that diverge, recombine, and split off again. Rewind, fast-forward, and move through these scenes’ chronologies as they swirl around you. Your interactive tools allow you to discover the tightly-knotted narrative from every angle, and in every detail.

A Deeply Interactive Gameworld:
Explore Tacoma Station both physically and digitally. Unlock doors and drawers to find meaningful objects, notes, and physical artifacts, while simultaneously exploring extensive records of the crew’s digital communications and personal thoughts. Every facet of the crew’s experience on Tacoma is part of your investigation.

A Vision of the Future:
Experience life in the year 2088. Discover a rich fictional universe that depicts humanity’s expansion into low-Earth orbit and beyond. A deeply-imagined speculative vision of the near future from the award-winning story team behind Gone Home and BioShock 2: Minerva’s Den.

A Compact Narrative Game:
Tacoma is estimated to take around 2 to 5 hours to complete. How deep you dig and how much detail you find is up to you. Tacoma is a non-combat, non-puzzle-focused game. The details of the story and gameworld are there for you to discover at your own pace.

Developer Commentary Mode!
Tacoma now includes over two hours of Audio Commentary from the writers, designers, programmers, artists and more who worked to bring the world of Tacoma to life. Learn secrets about Tacoma's fictional world, insight into the game development process, and personal stories from the people behind the game.	
READ MORE
System Requirements
Windows
Mac OS X
SteamOS + Linux

    Minimum:
        Requires a 64-bit processor and operating system
        OS: Windows 7 or higher, 64-bit
        Processor: 1.9ghz Intel i5-equivalent processor or higher
        Memory: 4 GB RAM
        Graphics: Onboard or dedicated graphics accelerator with 1GB+ of video RAM
        DirectX: Version 11
        Storage: 11 GB available space

    Recommended:
        Requires a 64-bit processor and operating system
        OS: Windows 7 or higher, 64-bit
        Processor: 2.9ghz Intel i7-equivalent processor or higher
        Memory: 8 GB RAM
        Graphics: Dedicated graphics accelerator with 2GB+ of dedicated video RAM
        DirectX: Version 11
        Storage: 11 GB available space
        Additional Notes: Runs best installed on a SSD

See all
More like this
The Fall of Lazarus
$14.99
Elea - Episode 1
$9.99
Event[0]
$19.99
Marie's Room
Free
What Remains of Edith Finch
$19.99
Gone Home
$14.99
Cradle
$12.99
Drizzlepath: Glass
$5.99
Everybody's Gone to the Rapture
$19.99
STARDROP
$24.99
The Wild Eternal
$14.99
The Solus Project
$19.99
View all
What Curators Say
101 Curators have reviewed this product. Click here to see them.
Customer reviews
Overall Reviews:
Very Positive (1,476 reviews)
Recent Reviews:
Very Positive (31 reviews)
Review Type
Purchase Type
Language
Date Range
Display As:
Review Beta NEW!
Show graph  
Filters
Your Languages
Review Helpfulness Beta Enabled
Showing 1,748 reviews that match the filters above ( Very Positive )
Most Helpful Reviews  In the past 90 days
CorvusCorax
1,024 products in account
513 reviews
Recommended
4.2 hrs on record
Posted: December 25, 2018
Gone Home in space

It is not necessarily an accurate statement as Tacoma has a different story, however, both this game and Fulbright's previous title, Gone Home, are walking sims or FPEs (first person exploration). There is a lot of emphasis on investigation - looking around in each room, finding every nook and cranny, interacting with as many objects as possible etc. in order to make the story advance. Interestingly, while Gone Home took us back in the '90s the creators show us a possible future with their latest product: it all takes place in 2088.

Space station here I come

Our job, as a communication specialist, is to investigate what exactly happened on Tacoma, a high-tech station not that far from Earth. Similarly to Gone Home there will be no other characters to interact with - in order to minimise the feeling of abandonment the creators employed what is called AR (augmented reality), a system that allows our heroine, Amy, to play audio / video recordings at key locations. Members of the crew have their own high-tech desktop apps open occasionally during these sessions - this is our cue to take a peek for more information.

What I liked is how sometimes these videos see all crew members conversing in one place but then they go elsewhere to continue with their own errands. This requires some rewinding on our part as we have to follow different people each time. When not watching these videos we can explore the various modules - all accessible from the station's hub region - that all have their own purpose (engineering, medical bay etc.) and they also include the crew's quarters.

Looks and twists

The game looks very good thanks to the use of Unity engine. When accessing a new area from the hub Amy rides an elevator of sort and this sequence can result in significant FPS drops for some reason. Other than that I experienced no performance issues. Unlike Gone Home where we were free to explore Tacoma wants us to go step-by-step - instructions are regularly being sent to tell is which new module we are to visit. I liked this approach as every new video takes place at a more recent time and the stakes are getting higher by the hour.

A believable future

Tacoma is a typical walking sim in the sense that it can be completed in a couple of hours and by hitting "continue" in the main menu we are back for some achievement hunting. And that's it. But what future does it present to us? A very believable one, that is. A future where capitalism and big corporations are more present than ever. A time when mankind is after yet another financial crisis that gave birth to the currency called "loyalty", something employees can take advantage of when working for companies.

People tend to work as subcontractors and when checking the profiles of each crew member we notice they are from new countries - is it possible that perhaps the US became divided up into much smaller, separate states? Or that Russia is now part of the EU? Or following a terrorist attack in the early 2020s we have already reached full disarmament? And then there's the A.I., Odin, whose role is important in all this as AIs are very close to becoming sentient beings.

Tacoma is a top-notch walking sim and I highly recommend it to walking sim and sci-fi fans.
Read More
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
35 people found this review helpful
2

1 person found this review funny
Most Helpful Reviews  In the past 30 days
Rurik
373 products in account
184 reviews
Not Recommended
5.7 hrs on record
Posted: March 11
Extremely boring walking game.

There are even no puzzles. Just walk, listen dialogues, click icons, get to know a usual story, walk again.
Characters are strange. Fat people in the space operation?
Story is boring.
Walking is very boring. I waited for about 50 seconds (just waited) to get from 1 sector of the ship to another.

I definitely can't recommend this game.
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
5 people found this review helpful
1
JJJ
123 products in account
1 review
Recommended
5.6 hrs on record
Posted: February 16
Great story with a really immersive environment. I wish I could've spent a couple more hours in this world, since it's really interesting, but the game was really good and keeps getting more interesting as you dig deeper into what happened.
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
2 people found this review helpful
deadfox
23 products in account
2 reviews
Recommended
2.0 hrs on record
Posted: February 23
This game is intriguing and invokes a lot of curiosity. I really enjoyed it. It might not be for everyone though. I also wondered if it had to do with the city in Washington. Playing through again with director's commentary was also a treat.
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
2 people found this review helpful
Ravenize > *
446 products in account
133 reviews
Recommended
4.5 hrs on record
Posted: March 1
Tacoma is a short and sweet adventure game set on a space station. Things go wrong. Then you show up.

It's a familiar formula, but the team behind Gone Home executes it well. If you want to explore a space station while experiencing a decent, well-written and well-acted story, look no further.

I do think there are two areas of particular note that set Tacoma apart. First, their use of augmented reality (AR) recorded videos to tell the story. Usually you'd get an audio log for something like that, but having the visual aspect is really nice. It almost feels like the Sherlock Holmes games as you're hunting down clues trying to piece the events together. It's really satisfying to see everything click into place.

Second, while there are certainly high stakes, and the game gets dark at times, on the whole it's a positive tale. I can't remember the last time I actually felt happy upon finishing a game in this age of constant apocalypses. There are also plenty of instances of humor throughout. The game is fundamentally good-natured.

Tacoma is what happens when talented people are allowed to make a game they care about and are invested in. More please.
Read More
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
1 person found this review helpful
sloan2
167 products in account
9 reviews
Recommended
4.9 hrs on record
Posted: February 11
What an incredibly thoughtful and profound game! I would love to explore more of the universe they've built. They've managed to create some truly original ways and plausible potential futures AI, among of other things.

In the end this is my favorite type of sci-fi.
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
1 person found this review helpful
Henning
1,148 products in account
12 reviews
Recommended
4.4 hrs on record
Posted: March 9
I can recommend this game. It's a typical walking simulator. The gameplay is reduced to the minimum, but the story is good written and paced.

It also has an excellent working Linux version. Nothing to complain about in this regard.
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
1 person found this review helpful
Nighthawk
291 products in account
64 reviews
Recommended
3.5 hrs on record
Posted: February 20
ISS Simulator 2088 - Sponsored by Amazon

Presentation
As game development becomes easier with the rise of new technologies and engines, that opens up the window for some developers who might not have a lot of experience designing games to tell a story using only the environment and exploration, pushing gameplay to a secondary place in favor of short narratives. While there have been many such games released in the past years, very few of them managed to tell a powerful story in such a short time and with the few tools available in environmental exploration games, but Fullbright's Tacoma is one of the successful examples. Previously known for 2013's surprise hit Gone Home, Fullbright has took the experience making that game to heart and crafted a truly unique experience, that takes all the stories and interactive objects from Gone Home and strips away the confusing parts and wasted time trying to look for your next objective.

In Tacoma, your objective is clear from the start, which is the moment your character Amy Ferrier enters the Tacoma station after taking a freelance job to check up on a few things aboard the station, from there onward you take on a quest to find out what happened to the permanent inhabitants of the station and why it appears to be a ghost town. Most of the story is told via holographic recordings, which when prompted will show the missing crew talking to each other and interacting with different aspects of the station, while you try to piece together what happened based on those recordings. Once a recording is started you can fully control it, including rewinding it, fast forwarding through it or pausing at any time, this allows you to walk around the area and see where each crew member was at that specific moment in the recording and what they were doing. Using those simple elements, you gradually piece together what happened to them, as well as detailing each character and their personality as you explore their rooms, find recordings of them listening to their favorite music or talking to ODIN, the AI aboard the Tacoma station designed to help them with their daily tasks.

Gameplay
A large chuck of the gameplay is dedicated to discovering, playing and understanding those recordings, on top of the free exploration element which allows you to read documents, interact with various objects and pick up almost any item that you can grab. Even if exploration isn't your thing, Tacoma always points you in the right direction, so even if you don't have the patience to fully explore every area, the game will let you know when you've gathered enough information from one area and give you directions to the next one. That being said, there are not that many areas and the game can be completed in less than hours, but for a game mainly focused on its story, it packs quite a lot of information and character backgrounds in that time, so it never feels like a longer tale compacted for the sake of time, it just is a very short story overall.

Puzzles are a seemingly missing element that is often found in other games in this genre, as the only puzzle aspect in Tacoma comes from piecing together those recordings and finding out where everyone is at each point in time, but that isn't something hard to do, as areas are not that big and the recording bar also has timestamps for every AR Crew Record, so finding them all is only a matter of time. Every other aspect of the game works as you would expect it to and during my 2 playthroughs I have not encountered a singular bug or glitch, so even though the game can be easily finished in one sitting, at least it will be a smooth ride all the way through to the end.

Graphics
Each one of the 6 crew members has a distinct personality and background, and even though you can only see their faces in pictures or documents since the AR recordings show them as transparent holograms, players who do want to get more information about each of the characters and their job aboard the Tacoma station will be happy to see that there are numerous items that you can interact with to expand the base story. The station is pretty to look at and each different area has a distinct look based on its purpose, but probably the biggest surprise graphically is looking out the window and seeing the station and the contrast between empty space and Earth further in the distance.

Audio
The voice actors do a fantastic job delivering the dialogue for their respective characters, which serves a major part in Tacoma's powerful story and while not every record is voiced and those corrupted archives will stay corrupted forever, leaving you with a disappointment if you were hoping to later unlock them in order to hear more stories from the crew, what is there is superbly written and you can clearly see the story and the atmosphere surrounding it were the main focus here.

Extras
Sadly there is only one ending and the game can be completed in one sitting, so when it comes to replay value unless you're looking forward to replay this further down the road with a fresh perspective, there is no reason to come back. While the achievements may give you an extra reason to explore the station further for some Easter Eggs, all of those combined shouldn't take longer that 30 minutes to complete.

Verdict
Tacoma is a short powerful story about space, the power of corporations and tense relations between humans, as well as an exploratory journey as you uncover every aspect of that. If you are into environmental exploration games with a good stories I highly recommend picking up Tacoma, but for anything else you might expect from this game, the short running time and limited gameplay elements might disappoint you.

Rating: 8.1

Check out the full review and more about Tacoma at https://gamedragons.net/viewtopic.php?f=6&t=251
Read More
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
1 person found this review helpful
Foehamner
675 products in account
24 reviews
Recommended
2.7 hrs on record
Posted: March 4
Telling a very good story, Tacoma takes full advantage of being a video game. Seamlessly blending gameplay and story telling, Tacoma avoids a common pitfall of walking simulators where the player walks and listens to the story while being briefly interrupted with unrelated minigames. From the graphics, to the writing and the voice acting, Tacoma is a very immersive narrative experience.
https://youtu.be/uvGPDna5nUM	
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
1 person found this review helpful
That Brutal Guy
191 products in account
10 reviews
Recommended
4.0 hrs on record
Posted: February 15
This game was amazing on like, a hundred million levels. There isn't a place in this game that feels like wasted space-- where there are a lot of games that have a lot of rooms with no substance, this game really rewards people who go out of their way to explore. You fall in love with the characters REALLY fast, and the dialogue is really good.

The graphics are great, the controls are easy, the story is compelling AF, and the characters are just... so nice. It's an awesome game and I can't recommend it enough. Absolutely worth the money.

The ONLY downside is that the game is sort of short; but, if you're anything like me, you'll gladly sacrifice and 10 hour ♥♥♥♥♥♥ game for an amazing, beautiful, fulfilling story like this.

This developer knows what's up and I'm here for them, pretty much forever.
Read More
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
1 person found this review helpful
Recently Posted
Qonstrukt
1.3 hrs
Posted: March 13
Kinda on the fence about this one.
Can't recommend it as 20$ is way too much for this overglorified game.

Very short but thats good. The immersion is nice and the story is interesting. The ending is a bit surprising.
You spend your time looking for clues about the story and listening to past conversations.
"Revolutionary, branched storytelling" is a huge exaggeration.

Features all the stuff a SJW likes, like worker unionization, same-sex marriage, overweight women in STEM, vegan lab-grown meat, multi-culturalism, corporate greed, AI liberation front, kissing robots and vigilantes.
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
penny7b
5.4 hrs
Posted: March 12
Creative game mechanic, touching story, I loved it.
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
Laverne
9.2 hrs
Posted: March 11
Amazing game
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
MrMentat
6.0 hrs
Posted: March 8
Its basically a walking sim but in space, and I thoroughly enjoyed it. The voice acting is top notch and the characters are three dimensional. Being able to piece together what happened and the current state of Earth through papers, notes, and audio/video recordings was really well done. I don't think I'll ever play this game again, but I will definitely recommend it if you have 3 or 4 hours to spare.
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
Princess Mononoke
2.9 hrs
Posted: March 7
Don't get me wrong, I really like the atmosphere but this is a walking simulator game and you need a good story to make it a good game. Story was too cliche. And all the people in station are too friendly each other. There should be more disagreement. Character backstories are not good. Exploration areas are too small. It's like a linear game.
Overall : It's not bad but it won't satisfy your expectations.
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
The_Lol_Person
3.4 hrs
Posted: March 6
A wonderful little game.
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
Running Salami
3.0 hrs
Posted: March 5
A really great game, captivating and intriguing! I couldn't let go of it until the very end, and wow. What an experience!
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
hiyguyperson
5.0 hrs
Posted: March 4
this game and it's story is great, but it can easily be finished in a day or two and the great but shot experience shouldn't be anywhere near as pricey. if you have enough money to invest, or enough time to wait for a good enough discount, then i would reccomend
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
Browse all 2,352 reviews
ABOUT STEAM ABOUT VALVE HELP NEWS FEEDS

Valve Software
Valve Software
© 2019 Valve Corporation. All rights reserved. All trademarks are property of their respective owners in the US and other countries.
VAT included in all prices where applicable.   Privacy Policy   |   Legal   |   Steam Subscriber Agreement   |   Refunds

About Valve   |  Steamworks   |  Jobs   |  Steam Distribution   |  Gift Cards   |   Steam   |   @steam_games
