
Login
Store
Community
Support
Change language
View desktop website
© Valve Corporation. All rights reserved. All trademarks are property of their respective owners in the US and other countries. Privacy Policy  |  Legal  |  Steam Subscriber Agreement  |  Refunds
STORE
COMMUNITY
ABOUT
SUPPORT
Install Steam
login  |  language
Your Store
Games
Software
Hardware
News
All Games > Indie Games > One Hour One Life
Community Hub
One Hour One Life
A multiplayer survival game of parenting and civilization building. Get born to another player as your mother. Live an entire life in one hour. Have babies of your own in the form of other players. Leave a legacy for the next generation as you help to rebuild civilization from scratch.
Recent Reviews:
Mixed (81)
All Reviews:
Mostly Positive (791)
Release Date:
Nov 8, 2018
Developer:
Jason Rohrer	
Publisher:
Jason Rohrer	
Popular user-defined tags for this product:
Indie Massively Multiplayer Survival Simulation +
2:00 / 3:19
Autoplay videos

Sign in to add this item to your wishlist, follow it, or mark it as not interested
Is this game relevant to you?

Sign in to see reasons why you may or may not like this based on your games, friends, and curators you follow.

Sign in or Open in Steam
Online Multi-Player
Requires 3rd-Party Account: Official One Life Game Servers (Supports Linking to Steam Account)
Languages:
	Interface 	Full Audio 	Subtitles
English 	✔ 		
Title: One Hour One Life
Genre: Indie, Massively Multiplayer, Simulation
Developer: Jason Rohrer
Publisher: Jason Rohrer	
Release Date: Nov 8, 2018

Visit the website
View stats
View update history
Read related news
View discussions
Find Community Groups
Share Embed  
Buy One Hour One Life
$19.99
Add to Cart
 
Recent updates View all (20)
March 1
Weekly Update #51


Fixes Galore:

All reported, reproducible issues in both the code and the content have now been fixed. It was a lot of stuff. You can see the full list here:

https://github.com/jasonrohrer/OneLifeData7/commits/master

There's also one surprise in there, and I will say nothing more about it.

Next week, I'm working on my GDC talk, which has been announced here:

https://schedule.gdconf.com/session/2014-vs-2018-the-shape-of-financial-success-before-and-after-the-indiepocalypse/864486	
12 comments Read more
February 23
Weekly Update #50


Turbo Map Load:

This update has tons of fixes and improvements. The biggest one is an overhaul to the way the map is loaded. You may have noticed that, in the past, the first time you loaded a map, it was pretty slow, but in later lives, it was very fast. This would be true even if you quit the game, as long as you didn't restart your computer.

And by "pretty slow" the first time, I mean very slow, depending on the state of your disk. 60 seconds or more wasn't unheard of, which meant that you were loading through a good portion of your childhood. This has gotten worse over time, as more sprites have been added. Subsequent map loads in future lives would be as fast as 4 seconds, thanks to caching.

Reading files from hard drives the first time is slow, there's no way around that. The game was designed with a lazy, as-needed approach to sprite loading, only keeping the sprites that are absolutely needed in VRAM, and flushing any sprites that haven't been drawn for over ten seconds. The idea was that, with 10,000 objects, all those sprites are never going to fit in texture memory. Maybe not, but we're not there yet, and the total size of all the sprites in the game is currently only about 56 MB. In busier map areas, almost all of these need to be loaded, so we're pretty much using that much texture memory anyway.

It turns out that reading 56 MB from disk isn't slow, generally, but when it's in 1800 separate files, caching prefetches can't help. Bundling all of these into one huge file makes it much faster, and so does compressing them (TGA files that have a lot of transparent borders are very compressible). These all fit, together, into just a single 6 MB file. Might as well load the whole thing at startup, which is what the game client is doing now. While we're at it, might as well do the same thing with the sound effects (which aren't at all compressible, but still benefit from being in one big file together for caching reasons).

So by the time you get around to "map loading," after logging in, there's really nothing to load. This means that a progress bar isn't even needed--it's that fast (most of the "3 seconds" quoted above are spent finding the server and connecting to it).

And thinking about the future, we're definitely not going to have 10x more sprites than we do right now, and that worst case would be 560 MB, which still would fit in the VRAM of some pretty old graphics cards. It might actually be okay to always preload all sprites.

This isn't entirely free, because the compressed glob file has to be made somehow. Given that, between sprites and sounds, this represents about 25 MB currently, and given that these files will change with every update, building them server-side would dramatically balloon the download sizes of the weekly updates.

So, your client rebuilds these, one time, after every update. This can take a bit of time, maybe up to a minute, depending on your hard drive, but after that, the game will load quickly. And furthermore, this process happens before you even login, so it has no impact on your map loading experience.

Okay, what else changed? Too much to list in detail here.

Everything after v199 here:

https://github.com/jasonrohrer/OneLife/blob/master/documentation/changeLog.txt

Everything on February 22, 2019 here:

https://github.com/jasonrohrer/OneLifeData7/commits/master

All reported and reproducible code bugs on GitHub have been fixed now. I'm still in the process of working through all the content bug reports.
12 comments Read more
Reviews

“This game broke my heart and restored my faith in humanity.”
Vice Motherboard

“The stories you create are intimate, complex and multidimensional... a moving microcosm of the human condition.”
Wired
About This Game
A multiplayer survival game of parenting and civilization building. Get born to another player as your mother. Live an entire life in one hour. Have babies of your own in the form of other players. Leave a legacy for the next generation as you help to rebuild civilization from scratch.

Hey folks, I'm Jason Rohrer, and I've been working on One Hour One Life for more than three years. I've been doing everything myself---I drew all the graphics on paper with pens and markers, I coded the entire engine from scratch, I composed and performed all of the music, and I even made all of the sound effects. It's a very personal game, and it's really unlike anything else that's out there. It's also a huge game---over 1300 fully interactive, craftable objects already. And it's only getting bigger, with weekly updates adding new things all the time. The game was initially released on my own website in February of 2018, and over the intervening months, I released 29 updates off-Steam. I've promised to keep releasing weekly update for at least the next two years, with the end goal of making the largest, most comprehensive crafting game in history.

Okay, so what about the game itself?

First of all, you only live for an hour, where each minute marks a passing year. You join the game server as a newborn baby, and some other randomly-chosen player is your mother. You depend on her for your survival. And why will she be willing to waste her valuable time and resources to keep you alive? Because she's going to die in an hour just like everyone else, and if she wants what she accomplishes in her lifetime to have any meaning, then the next generation (aka, you) is her only hope. And if you survive into adulthood, you may get the chance to have babies of your own---other players, just joining the server---and those babies will be the next generation that gives meaning to your own life accomplishments.

Across this ever-growing family tree of generations, players are collectively conducting an enormous project: they are rebuilding civilization from scratch. The online game world starts out as a near-infinite expanse of wilderness (four billion meters wide from east to west, and four billion meters wide from north to south, with a total surface area of over 18,000,000,000,000,000,000 square meters, or 36,000 times bigger than Earth). The very first player to join the server is Eve, and she starts out in the wilderness as the root of the family tree. Eve and her immediate offspring lay the foundation for the future civilization, perhaps making a few primitive tools, cooking basic foods, and starting a small farm as they scrape out a meager existence before dying. Future generations will build on this primitive foundation, eventually mastering more and more advanced technology, including domesticated animals, metal working, permanent buildings, and transportation networks.

But as real-life history has shown, civilization is fragile. A generation that is born into the lap of luxury---on the backs of their ancestors' hard-won accomplishments---can just as easily squander their inheritance as build upon it. Key resources run out over time, so careful management, planning, and organization are necessary to prevent an inevitable collapse. Thus, the game graduates from the individual challenge of primitive survival in the early stages to a group organizational and leadership challenge in the later stages. How do rules and procedures for group survival propagate across multiple generations? What did our great grandparents have in mind for this village?

The main mode in the game involves being born as a helpless baby to another player as your mother, but you can also play with your friends as twins, triplets, or quadruplets. One baby is hard enough to take care of---any mother that can successfully take care of quadruplets deserves the eternal gratitude of you and your friends.

All of this is happening on my own centrally-managed, persistent servers, and your purchase includes a lifetime account on these official servers. After you buy the game, you can instantly connect to this world with no configuration or server set-up. It all just works. You also get access to the full source code, including the server code. Technically-minded folks can run their own private servers, or even use the powerful content editor to make their own mods.

I hope you'll join us as this sprawling civilization-building experiment continues to unfold. Many thousands of players have already collectively lived over 400,000 hours in this endlessly-changing world so far. Before the Steam release, the average playtime for each player was 17 hours, with dozens of players logging over 500 hours each, and 94% positive off-Steam player reviews. This is a deep and rich game already, and there are still hundreds of content updates to come.

No two lives are ever the same, and a new story always awaits on the other side of the [GET REBORN] button.

Jason Rohrer
October 2018
Davis, California
READ MORE
System Requirements

    Minimum:
        OS: Windows XP or newer
        Processor: 1.7+ GHz or better
        Memory: 2 GB RAM
        Graphics: GeForce G210M or better; 256 MB or higher
        Network: Broadband Internet connection
        Storage: 250 MB available space
        Sound Card: Any

See all
More like this
TITANS: Dawn of Tribes
$9.99
Life is Feudal: Your Own
$19.99
New Dawn
$18.99
Hide & Hold Out - H2o
$17.99
Disdoored
$19.99
Miscreated
$24.99
Life is Feudal: MMO
Free To Play
Dark and Light
$17.99
Deepworld
Free to Play
Lost Region
Mortal Online
Free to Play
ROKH
$19.99
View all
What Curators Say
39 Curators have reviewed this product. Click here to see them.
Customer reviews
Overall Reviews:
Mostly Positive (791 reviews)
Recent Reviews:
Mixed (81 reviews)
Review Type
Purchase Type
Language
Date Range
Display As:
Review Beta NEW!
Show graph  
Filters
Your Languages
Review Helpfulness Beta Enabled
Showing 765 reviews that match the filters above ( Mostly Positive )
Most Helpful Reviews  In the past 30 days
Twisted
838 products in account
17 reviews
Recommended
170.9 hrs on record
Posted: February 18
I'm seeing a lot of negative reviews due to the recent temperature changes, and I just wanted to post my thoughts on it to give people the thoughs of a person that loves this update.

In my mind, this is one of the best updates yet. The way temperature works was completely revamped to be more in line with the general vision of the game, which of course means the entire metagame has shifted. I truly believe that once people adapt they playstyle their reviews will change back to positive.

In One Hour One Life your temperature affects the rate at which your hunger bar decays. The idea is that you want to craft clothing, build buildings, and keep fires alive to protect yourself from the cold and make survival easier. Makes sense, right?

Well, due to the way temperature worked before, deserts adjacent to a non-desert biome had almost perfect temperature on their own. This meant that players had a choice: a) live in a desert completely naked, or b) invest time and resources into making clothes and buildings to live in other biomes.

Of course, everyone chose to live in the desert naked - why spend time and resources making a good spot to live when there are good spots spawning naturally. Building your town in a grassland or a prairie was always a mistake. To make things even worse, since clothing and buildings increased your heat, they were actually a detriment to desert civilizations.

The update changed a few things - it removed natural perfect temperature spots, made wearing clothing always better than being naked, and made buildings always improve the temperature. This means that deserts are now too hot to live in unless you build buildings to protect you from the heat. It also means that clothing makes a much bigger difference now, and surviving naked is a bigger challenge than before. As you can see, this means the entire settling metagame is different now.

These changes also mean that starting a brand new civilization alone is more difficult than before, but the difficulty of living in a developed town is mostly unchanged - except the fact that developed towns now actually have buildings and clothing instead of being wide open nudist beaches.

I was always annoyed at the uselessness of clothing, buildings, and the fact that most biomes were unlivable. The fact that living butt naked in a desert was the optimal way to play always seemed silly to me - if you decided to live in a desert completely naked in real life, you probably wouldn't last very long.

This update fixes all temperature-related concerns that I had with the game, and I am very pleased with the results. It might make the early game more difficult, but that's just a separate thing that can be balanced by tweaking other values (I personally think it's fine as it is, but I have more experience than the average player and I don't find the game difficult).
Read More
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
35 people found this review helpful
2
GlassGuy
131 products in account
35 reviews
Recommended
10.7 hrs on record
Posted: February 25
>Be born to a lost mother who's strayed far from her tribe
>Explains the story to me, hands me a seal cape she had from a cart she took
>She ends up birthing many more, including my little sister, who her and I survived together while the others died from baby incompetence
>Mother and I discuss trying to find our way home or starting anew civilization
>I say I'm down either way
>We start a new civilization next to a huge forest
>I pick bananas and take them back to mother, she keeps birthing but somehow still manages to create a bakery
>I keep going throughout my routes, each time I come back the society is more and more advanced
>Despite the constant routes, my sister and I stay in touch
>Find mother's dead body at the end of one of my routes
>Take a moment to honor her death, but then quickly get back to work because some guy keeps hogging a bunch of bananas
>Have to go farther and farther out to cultivate bananas, as supplies linger
>Begin to worry about food because this guy keeps hogging the bananas
>Little sister is amazing, creates huge farm and teaches her children how to work it
>Keep doing routes
>Brother that hogs all the bananas dies of Yellow Fever, fitting death
>Grow too frail to keep making routes
>Retire at the campfire my sister and I created
>Child is born
>Tells child about how the civilization began, eventually giving my only possession, the seal cape to them for being a great listener
>Die
10/10 Would run around collecting bananas wearing only a seal cape and still be respected by society again
P.S. Shoutout to my homies Lissa Knittle and Sadie Knittle for successfully creating a civilization with me
Read More
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
25 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny
ᵀн sdogg2m
432 products in account
1 review
Not Recommended
112.0 hrs on record
Posted: February 12
I would highly discourage anyone on steam from buying this game and look into other completed options for your enjoyment. I will go more in-depth below.

The concept of being birthed, cared for, and then helping to contribute to a clan or civilization is unique and intriguing at first. The more you spend time playing this game you will realize the flaws outweigh the positives. I am writing this review so you don’t pour the same 200+ hours of time into this game and regret it, just as I have.

1) This game is not complete. The trailer is not a good representation of this game. The bulk of your time will be spent looking for an ideal opportunity to build up a clan or civilization or fighting individuals who are looking to destroy it. If your goal is to get in and contribute to something positive and avoid several pitfalls for death then this is not your game. The creator is still adding content which mean balancing issues will come by trial and error.

You don’t realize it upon purchase but what you are is a beta tester. You will have to deal with bugs and balance issues as the content creator (Jason) seeks to update and improve on the game. So if you have an idea of creating a clan and being born in four generations later then you may not be able to as some game breaking feature may be utilized by others (Right now it is snowballs). As of last week, players were born in as “Eves” so the creator could do load testing on his server. I don’t buy games to help creators to troubleshoot their server side equipment, I buy them to play them.

2) The more you learn the more you realize your time is being wasted. Expect to waste a considerable amount of time on early deaths as either you or your mother search for the perfect scenario to build up a clan. As you gain experience, you will come to realize what will doom your clan (IE not having enough water, building in a cold biome, etc.) and you will deal with others who know this as well. The overwhelming majority of deaths in this game are suicide.

The issue with 80-90% of births ending in suicides is that you need players and “girls” in particular to build your civilization and continue your family line. I, too, have often suicided either because a scenario didn’t fit what I wanted to accomplish or I knew the clan was doomed from the start. This is difficult and a time waster for two people, myself and the person needing players for their civilization. You will find tiles of map stacked with bones that seem endless due to suiciding players.

3) An effective deterrent to greifing does not exist. Griefing describes a player whose main goal is to destroy the fun of others. Every game experiences players who have this agenda and thus there must be a system in place to discourage this behavior. At this point, I can only conclude that the content creator welcomes and enjoys griefing.

A player has many different ways in which he can destroy the hard work of several others. He can attempt to eat all their food; bring a grizzly bear; hide or break important items like tools; or even kill people with snowballs. I have only touched on a few of the ways in which someone can destroy a civilization but there are many more. The current popular method for doing so is using snowballs which can easily be made in infinity and kill quickly with little opposition. Even if the creator removed this method of killing from the game there are still so many other ways for the few to wreck the progress of the many. For this reason I would highly encourage you to look elsewhere for your entertainment.

Based on the number of hours played, I have received a decent value for the amount of money I have spent. So why give this game a poor review? This game could have been so much more and have the potential to provide 1,000s of hours of fun. You will leave this game not out of satisfaction because you have accomplished much but out of frustration because you could have accomplished so much more.

Read More
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
55 people found this review helpful
2

2 people found this review funny
JainaFRS
40 products in account
6 reviews
Recommended
1.9 hrs on record
Posted: February 26
It's fun and definitely unique, but the price point is a little too high in my opinion. Definitely not a bad game though!
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
6 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny
Candy-Anne [ₖQ]
58 products in account
4 reviews
Not Recommended
183.0 hrs on record
Posted: February 12
I loved this game, however, you should get full disclosure upfront before purchase.
This game should be listed as BETA. I feel like is is far from being a completed product due to bug issues, lag and most of all griefers.
This game is a griefers paradise and if you can get a camp successfully off the ground, expect your lineage to be swiftly ruined by murders. Gone are the dreams of being born back into your camp after the cool down period. Currently the system used to deter griefers is flawed and during most of your life unusable due to character restrictions.
IMO this game should be labelled PVP unless changes are made. And if you kill the griefer, you will be banned from your lineage for several hours.

Never has a game made me so upset.
Never has a game made me so angry.
It ruined my whole day!
Read More
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
20 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny
Martini
87 products in account
6 reviews
Recommended
3.3 hrs on record
Posted: February 21
My 2nd life I was born into a big village. Here is that story:
>Be born
>Have beautiful mother named Anastacia
>She names me Jack
>Born into big town
>Become farmer
>Mom teaches me how to farm
>She gives me love in all ways possible
>I mess up but she helps me fix my mistakes
>Fast forward to my 30s
>Can't find mom
>She has died and I never got to say goodbye
>Town is running out of water as all our wells and pumps ran dry
>Go to search for water
>Find pond
>Bring bucket and bowl to get water
>When I come back to town everyone left taking all the food with them
>Die of starvation at 45.
>Wish my last words were "I loved you mom"
>Last words were is here.
Great game
Read More
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
7 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny
Cloudgazer
271 products in account
17 reviews
Recommended
13.7 hrs on record
Posted: February 18
my biggest accomplishment: breeding 10 survived kids :D
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny
Kang
29 products in account
14 reviews
Recommended
5.1 hrs on record
Posted: February 27
F FOR FOOD
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
3 people found this review helpful
1

5 people found this review funny
Silverkill95
277 products in account
6 reviews
Recommended
39.7 hrs on record
Posted: February 26
It was a little rough starting out especially because I started right after the temperature update with everyone running around too busy building homes and making clothes to teach anyone.

but over time i managed to learn more and more and man did it feel satisfying when i managed to live a life learning something new or making something that will help future generations.
even if it was just something little, I like to think that my contribution helps later generations
when i make a cart, i know that thing will be used for multiple generations unless someone loses it of course.
when i make a bunch of pies, i know it's going to save loads of lives when other food sources may deplete.
when i get children i like to look up the family tree online later to see how it turned out and if i got any grand grand grand grand children.

TLDR:
The game is really complicated and has a lot of depth to it. You will probably stick to the jobs you know for a while
but after you've learned a bunch of jobs it is a lot of fun.
The best way to learn is from your mom, adoptive father or by watching other people do stuff!
Read More
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
2 people found this review helpful
Bugboy921
53 products in account
50 reviews
Recommended
30.6 hrs on record
Posted: February 15
Best game good game I will write best stories in comments because i have no friends.
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
2 people found this review helpful
Recently Posted
Tribune_Alpha
58.3 hrs
Posted: March 13
I really enjoy this game, and while not in any way finished, the one time purchase is active forever, so you can come back later when more content is added.

This game is about many things, and more then anything, it's about teamwork, you learn by asking others who already know, you can only advance when your entire civ works fluidly enough to devote even one person to climbing the already expansive tech tree. you start by making maybe a few tools, and if you're lucky a small farm. as the civ climbs the tree, more and more people can work on things that aren't farming, and as your civ has more people able to do building, hunting, foresting, smithing, gathering, it snowballs(those are in the game too) until your civ is so large you have virtually no farmers and almost everyone is doing something else.

one life you may be trying to save a civ on the brink of collapse while juggling two kids as the last fertile female in the civ, the next you're spending your entire life trying to get a shovel because everyone used up all the Steel and being annoyed by people asking where the farm is, and then maybe you have a civ that's ruler just murdered someone in the bakery becuase the victim was naming all the kids Laziors and the food's depleted so you die alone at the age of 15 in a field of meat and corpses. Then the life after you are part of a death cult that offers up men to their god of blood and you escape to live on the fringe of the civ to avoid being murdered and die while recounting your tale to a baby boy. As you once agaiin spawn, you have a pretty normal life until you reach fertility, when you start having so many kids you can't do anything, and have to live in the berthing hut.

All those and more happened to me, this game gives every life a story and purpuse, maybe you want to try your hand at ranching, or want to experament with the new tech added last update, or maybe you just have an hour or two you need to wait, so you just log on to have some fun.

A life well spent is a life lived freely, and you have your entire hour of life to spend, get going!
Read More
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
beginner
3.5 hrs
Posted: March 11
good game
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
Krombopulos Michael
3.2 hrs
Posted: March 11
Here are my first 3 lives.

1.
I were stabbed at the age of 12 for eating someones carrot.

2.
I lived to the ripe old age of 60 and died mid speech as I were giving advice to someone about where to sit when booking flights on a plane.

3.
I gave birth to 6 kids, someone tried to kidnap one, so I stabbed him.
Before I passed I round them all up and told them "Look after each other and if anyone ever messes with you, give them the old stabby stabby family tradition."


Long story short, its unique and hilarious, theres a lot of depth there if you want to take it far, otherwise its good for a casual laugh.

A lot of work has gone in, but I have to say that price point is still a bit excessive.
Read More
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
ShanTV
1.4 hrs
Posted: March 10
All I can say is don't waste your time. The learning curve here is so high, the core mechanics are so difficult to work with. No map, no camera zoom, no inventory of any kind. The execution by the developer is a little on the genius side but the game its self is not fun. Don't waste your time.
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
Shysheia
90.7 hrs
Posted: March 9
This game is great at making people work together i still cant comprehend what people have build these days. Though my main problem is the lack of content lately, I know fixes are important but the consumers want content more then ever. I also feel like its still to easy to grief entire villages its just too easy to pack pies into a cart and hide them. feel free to critisize me about any remarks.
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
wtakacs1221
75.8 hrs
Posted: March 7
You should never play this game via Steam. There are an insurmountable amount of bugs, and the Steam interface cares not for what you pay, but for how it can ignore your attempts at contacting customer service there after. They have eaten my $20 bux, and you should be better informed because of it.
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
5hit
3.1 hrs
Posted: March 6
Born.
Mom welcoming first word "Go to Die".
Reborn.
Grandpa welcoming first word "You all going to Die"
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
Fo da biet.
31.4 hrs
Posted: March 4
Was born on a pile of bones in the wild. Brother starved taking care of me. Grew old in solitude as a wondering hunter trying to find civilization. Died of old age completely alone in the wilderness. 10/10 would play again.
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
WBsteve
10.8 hrs
Posted: March 3
Product received for free
First time playing
first life...
born as a black kid
mom runs away
and the other moms ignore me so i die.
2nd life born as a white girl
mom does not runaway and i grow up to have kids
with my little brother
i cheat on him with a guy named jeff
and have ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ kids
then i die because i forgot to eat.
10/10 will commit incest again.
video of that here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pr3VArlUA9I&t=15s	
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
Browse all 1,003 reviews
ABOUT STEAM ABOUT VALVE HELP NEWS FEEDS

Valve Software
Valve Software
© 2019 Valve Corporation. All rights reserved. All trademarks are property of their respective owners in the US and other countries.
VAT included in all prices where applicable.   Privacy Policy   |   Legal   |   Steam Subscriber Agreement   |   Refunds

About Valve   |  Steamworks   |  Jobs   |  Steam Distribution   |  Gift Cards   |   Steam   |   @steam_games
