
Login
Store
Community
Support
Change language
View desktop website
© Valve Corporation. All rights reserved. All trademarks are property of their respective owners in the US and other countries. Privacy Policy  |  Legal  |  Steam Subscriber Agreement  |  Refunds
STORE
COMMUNITY
ABOUT
SUPPORT
Install Steam
login  |  language
Your Store
Games
Software
Hardware
News
All Games > Action Games > Feed and Grow: Fish
Community Hub
Feed and Grow: Fish
Hunt and eat other fish - simply, grow into larger beasts!
Recent Reviews:
Mostly Positive (53)
All Reviews:
Mostly Positive (1,712)
Release Date:
Jan 8, 2016
Developer:
Old B1ood	
Publisher:
Greens s.r.o.	
Popular user-defined tags for this product:
Early Access Simulation Underwater Multiplayer +
0:12 / 1:06
Autoplay videos

Sign in to add this item to your wishlist, follow it, or mark it as not interested
Is this game relevant to you?

Sign in to see reasons why you may or may not like this based on your games, friends, and curators you follow.

Sign in or Open in Steam
Single-player
Multi-player
Co-op
Steam Achievements
Partial Controller Support
Languages:
	Interface 	Full Audio 	Subtitles
English 	✔ 		
Includes 18 Steam Achievements
[Giant Crab]
[2017 Xmas Gift]
[Conqueror crab]
View
all 18
Title: Feed and Grow: Fish
Genre: Action, Indie, Simulation, Early Access
Developer: Old B1ood
Publisher: Greens s.r.o.	
Release Date: Jan 8, 2016

Visit the website
View update history
Read related news
View discussions
Find Community Groups
Share Embed  
Early Access Game
Get instant access and start playing; get involved with this game as it develops.

Note: This Early Access game is not complete and may or may not change further. If you are not excited to play this game in its current state, then you should wait to see if the game progresses further in development. Learn more
What the developers have to say:
Why Early Access?
“Feed and Grow has grown from prototype to beta version thanks to player's support. It is this beta version in Early Access where we want to test and polish new features, including the much-desired multiplayer version. In addition to that there are new playable fish, new abilities, passives, mods and scenarios with we need to test to make them more fun. For that, community feedback is the best.”
Approximately how long will this game be in Early Access?
“One year. During this time we want to test the specific new additions and focus on improving them.”
How is the full version planned to differ from the Early Access version?
“

    Game content – at least 3 new scenarios / maps
    Both single and multi player versions – new fish abilities and passives
    New playable characters
    Smooth multiplayer game experience – as many tech issues solved to ensure multiplayer availability for as
    Smoother animations
    Sounds and music
    Features that will appear during the testing – player detection amongst other fish, preffered game mods and abilities and other improvements that the community wants the most.

”
What is the current state of the Early Access version?
“

    Many different playable creatures, each with basic abilities.
    Three different maps.
    Deadmatch mode and Crab madness mode.

”
Will the game be priced differently during and after Early Access?
“During the whole Early Access the price of the game will remain the same and will be discounted.

At the release of the full version, the price will reflect all the features added. Purchasing the Early Access version will include the first full version too.”
How are you planning on involving the Community in your development process?
“Feedback is much appreciated. It's proved to us to be the best pinpointer on features and parts that need out attention the most. We're really happy to talk about the game with players.

We're looking forward to meeting players in game as well and you can find us on Facebook or YouTube, where we're happy to chat too.

In addition to that we will keep the community informed here with various news updates, behind-the-scenes stuff and upcoming features.”
Read more
Buy Feed and Grow: Fish
$14.99
Add to Cart
 
Recent updates View all (40)
December 23, 2018
Christmas event

Merry Christmas everyone
We're bringing back Christmas event so anyone who haven't opened their gifts year ago have now their chance to do so, for those who did Santa crabs have left one more gift.

Other changes
Despite this is not a real update, some of the changes we're working on behind the scene, have managed to slip in.

    We've cut the prices of fish to remove the grind it took to spawn as one - mainly in Great map.
    We've reduced experience required to level up as very big fish ex.( Bibos Lv 50) to reduce late grind.
    Water rendering has been heavily optimized for each graphical quality level.
    Tiger shark now has more accurate model. Also reduced the passive swimming speed on sharks.
    Fixed behavior of Aigialosaurus who seemed to ignore everything.
    Ocean map has gotten some of it's parts finally finished.


Megalodon
Is now playable after taking him down and gaining his achievement.




Sorry for the lack of content in this event, we are really working hard on next update, it is just not ready yet.
59 comments Read more
October 31, 2018
Halloween Challenge

Fill your belly with candy
Halloween event has returned, now with skin rewards. The goal is simple eat candy and avoid zombies, unlock skins and achievements at 50/100/150/200/250 score.

Some tips
-Keep it slow and calm, zombie fish react to your movement.
-Take use of pumpkins that act as a safe houses.
-When being chased take quick sharp turns, regain stamina, then swim straight away.

New fish - Arowana



Raptor - remake



Zombie Pike


Other changes

    Megalodon size and damage have been reduced
    Prognathodon now has two spawns
    Experience required to level up have been reduced around levels 20-40


Our personal highest score


Good luck and thanks,
As always looking forward to next update!
61 comments Read more
See all discussions

Report bugs and leave feedback for this game on the discussion boards
About This Game
Hunt and eat other fish - simply, grow into larger beasts!

Animal survival game based in the fish world! You start as Bibos the fish and straight away you are ready to dive in to the waters of the mesmerizing world of Feed and Grow.

Growing into more mods and content
With the first release we want to test the basics of multiplayer. Further development will include new fish abilities and passives, new fun content for both single and multiplayer with game mods.

Also, we want to focus on the technical stuff and add new animations, new features, make gameplay smoother and more fun.

Show your love and support in reviews!
We're grateful for all your feedback and tips, it helps us make the game more awesome.
System Requirements

    Minimum:
        Memory: 4 GB RAM
        Graphics: Direct3D 11.0 mimimum with atleast 2GB VRAM
        DirectX: Version 11
        Storage: 2 GB available space

    Recommended:
        Memory: 8 GB RAM
        Graphics: GTX 970 and better
        DirectX: Version 11
        Storage: 2 GB available space

See all
More like this
Raft
$19.99
Stranded Deep
$14.99
Shark Attack Deathmatch 2
$2.99
FarSky
$4.99
World of Diving
$19.99
Last Tide
$24.99
Subnautica: Below Zero
$19.99
We Need To Go Deeper
$9.99
Subnautica
$24.99
Bermuda - Lost Survival
$14.99
Depth Hunter 2: Deep Dive
$14.99
CHKN
$14.99
View all
What Curators Say
18 Curators have reviewed this product. Click here to see them.
Customer reviews
Overall Reviews:
Mostly Positive (1,712 reviews)
Recent Reviews:
Mostly Positive (53 reviews)
Review Type
Purchase Type
Language
Date Range
Display As:
Review Beta NEW!
Show graph  
Filters
Your Languages
Review Helpfulness Beta Enabled
Showing 986 reviews that match the filters above ( Mostly Positive )
Most Helpful Reviews  In the past 90 days
»Radioactive Panda«
641 products in account
11 reviews
Recommended
18.9 hrs on record
Early Access Review
Posted: January 18
We need more survival games where you play as an animal.. Seriously, why has nobody developed more games like this? There's a huge fanbase out there for animal survival games, I'm just sick of playing as a human all the damn time. This game is worth it.
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
37 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny
James_1977
106 products in account
4 reviews
Not Recommended
27.5 hrs on record
Early Access Review
Posted: December 23, 2018
Controls need major improvement, you cannot save your progression, it's fun to play if you enjoy starting over from scratch everytime you start the game.. it's worth the money on sale, don't buy it full price.
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
55 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny
Andrewhrichardson
19 products in account
4 reviews
Recommended
58.3 hrs on record
Early Access Review
Posted: January 4
My 7 year old daughter loves this game. She's logged nearly 20hrs so far and doesn't show any signs of getting tired of it. Great for kids!
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
15 people found this review helpful
7 people found this review funny
Most Helpful Reviews  In the past 30 days
omer_hu
7 products in account
1 review
Recommended
10.4 hrs on record
Early Access Review
Posted: March 5
this game is okay but the pirannah needs a buff it is TRASH so update it please otherwise its great
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
2 people found this review helpful
COOOLL WHIPP
29 products in account
9 reviews
Recommended
97.3 hrs on record
Early Access Review
Posted: February 18
i have 74 hours on the game now and i love how animated it is and how big you can grow theres a bunch of fish to be $15 is worth it and if any of you own the game then there is gonna be a custom map feature to either a mod or something in the game there is tons of experience in the game great mods too and all of the sea animals are not only fish you could be whales sharks crabs and more and there is a mod that lets you play as a bunch of more more fish
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
3 people found this review helpful
ryaneck09
3 products in account
2 reviews
Recommended
21.7 hrs on record
Early Access Review
Posted: March 2
can you make the baby angler fish in survival mode faster
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
2 people found this review helpful
Maddie! Maddie!
240 products in account
30 reviews
Recommended
58.6 hrs on record
Early Access Review
Posted: February 12
Help! I'm A Fish!!
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
2 people found this review helpful
7 people found this review funny
macbinary01
110 products in account
16 reviews
Not Recommended
2.1 hrs on record
Early Access Review
Posted: February 13
Cons:
- Controls are not developed properly
- Camera angle can't be changed and is terrible along with the fact it constantly spins around when you're near rocks or the sea bed making for an unenjoyable experience
- Fish (shark in particular) get stuck on the bottom of the sea bed and you can't move, compounded by the spinning camera
- Not all the controls are bound to the controller (xbox controller) despite there being only 5 functions or so. You still have to use 'Q' to breed which means trying to chase a fish using the twin sticks and pressing Q on keyboard at same time
- Really poor draw distance on certain items. Food disappears when it's a few body lengths away yet I can see fish swimming on the opposite side of the lake/pond.
- No save states
- Poorly optimised
- Game was released to "early access" 2 years ago and it's pretty awful in its current state

Pros:
- Steam refund option!

I bought this game as something to unwind with when not playing more in depth games yet I found it more frustrating than trying to collect sparks from a grinder.
Read More
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
5 people found this review helpful
Tommy Angelo
11 products in account
5 reviews
Recommended
29.6 hrs on record
Early Access Review
Posted: February 20
fun game, but it gets repetitive, still waiting for more uptades
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
2 people found this review helpful
[JAWA] Fairchild
166 products in account
20 reviews
Not Recommended
1.2 hrs on record
Early Access Review
Posted: February 24
Worth $10 tops.

 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
1 person found this review helpful
Recently Posted
mute
8.4 hrs
Early Access Review
Posted: March 13
Good game that has a great future ahead if the right path is taken. Takes a while to get used to, but good to play when stressed. Recommended for casual players.
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
izzy1811
56.7 hrs
Early Access Review
Posted: March 13
Great game for kids
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
annapolska93
42.7 hrs
Early Access Review
Posted: March 12
Games stopped to play, freezing after some time, does not save progress. The steam does not refund because more than 2 hours play lol ( 2 hours of reboots ).
Don't buy.
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
Rog
65.4 hrs
Early Access Review
Posted: March 12
Rog wants more complex gameplay. 5/10
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
XO DIMITRI OX
8.0 hrs
Early Access Review
Posted: March 10
Amazing.ya, thats it.
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
okay, this is epic
7.5 hrs
Early Access Review
Posted: March 10
If the megalodon didn't target you whenever you get slightly big, I would've recommended it.
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
HearingMeow
0.6 hrs
Early Access Review
Posted: March 5
15 dollars of lag, i would like if you can change the graphic settings to go lower because im getting 5 frames a sec, and i dont want to have a game i cant play.
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
SavageDino
31.8 hrs
Early Access Review
Posted: March 2
I love this game I wish they can make a dinosaur game just like this but with dinosaurs
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
Browse all 1,819 reviews
ABOUT STEAM ABOUT VALVE HELP NEWS FEEDS

Valve Software
Valve Software
© 2019 Valve Corporation. All rights reserved. All trademarks are property of their respective owners in the US and other countries.
VAT included in all prices where applicable.   Privacy Policy   |   Legal   |   Steam Subscriber Agreement   |   Refunds

About Valve   |  Steamworks   |  Jobs   |  Steam Distribution   |  Gift Cards   |   Steam   |   @steam_games
