
Login
Store
Community
Support
Change language
View desktop website
© Valve Corporation. All rights reserved. All trademarks are property of their respective owners in the US and other countries. Privacy Policy  |  Legal  |  Steam Subscriber Agreement  |  Refunds
STORE
COMMUNITY
ABOUT
SUPPORT
Install Steam
login  |  language
Your Store
Games
Software
Hardware
News
All Games > Adventure Games > Where the Water Tastes Like Wine
Community Hub
Where the Water Tastes Like Wine
Where the Water Tastes Like Wine is a Narrative-Adventure game about traveling, sharing stories, and surviving manifest destiny.
Recent Reviews:
Mostly Positive (10)
All Reviews:
Very Positive (276)
Release Date:
Feb 28, 2018
Developer:
Dim Bulb Games, Serenity Forge	
Publisher:
Good Shepherd Entertainment	
Popular user-defined tags for this product:
Adventure Indie RPG Story Rich Atmospheric +
0:07 / 1:06
Autoplay videos

Sign in to add this item to your wishlist, follow it, or mark it as not interested
Is this game relevant to you?

Sign in to see reasons why you may or may not like this based on your games, friends, and curators you follow.

Sign in or Open in Steam
Single-player
Steam Achievements
Full controller support
Steam Trading Cards
Steam Cloud
Languages:
	Interface 	Full Audio 	Subtitles
English 	✔ 	✔ 	✔
French 	✔ 		✔
German 	✔ 		✔
Russian 	✔ 		✔
Includes 38 Steam Achievements
[Got Your Kicks]
[Storyteller]
[The Pullman Porter]
View
all 38
Title: Where the Water Tastes Like Wine
Genre: Adventure, Indie, RPG
Developer: Dim Bulb Games, Serenity Forge
Publisher: Good Shepherd Entertainment	
Release Date: Feb 28, 2018

Visit the website
View update history
Read related news
View discussions
Find Community Groups
Share Embed  
74
metacritic
Read Critic Reviews
Awards
READ MORE
Buy Where the Water Tastes Like Wine
$19.99
Add to Cart
Buy Where The Water Tastes Like Wine - Wayfarer Edition

Includes 2 items: Where the Water Tastes Like Wine, Where The Water Tastes Like Wine - Original Soundtrack	
Bundle info
-10%
$26.98
Add to Cart
Content For This GameBrowse all (1)
$9.99
Where The Water Tastes Like Wine - Original Soundtrack
$9.99
Add all DLC to Cart
 
Recent updates View all (11)
March 13
Where the Water Tastes Like Wine: Gold Mountain update
It is always a hope for a creator that their work can be appreciated widely, across the divide of different countries and languages.
我们认为，艺术和文化理应跨越语言的藩篱，为世界范围内传播和赏鉴。

When we released this game, we are were pleased to see the passionate, excited fans who love the game, and to share American folklore and history with the world.
发布这款游戏，我们即为见证了粉丝们的热情而感到满足，也为世界各地的人们能有机会了解到美国文史而感到荣幸。

Some fans go above and beyond, and create their own art, or writing, or other work of their own to pay homage to the game.
不仅如此，一些粉丝更通过艺术创作、写作或其它作品方式来向游戏致敬。

Some of them speak multiple languages, and decide to translate the game into their own language. This is no small undertaking - Where the Water Tastes Like Wine has almost a million words, and the writing in the game is based very strongly on American culture and history. It is also beautiful and poetic, something often difficult to capture in translation.
他们中的一些人同时懂得英文和中文，并决定将游戏翻译成自己的母语：中文。这不是一件轻松的工作，《彼处水如酒》原始英文版大约包含近百万单词，绝大多数文字都是包含了美国文史背景的文学性描述。

A wonderful Chinese localization team, led by Ryan Zhang, has spent four months to translate the entire game, plus the lyrics to the soundtrack, for players in China. We are humbled and gratified by this, and we hope that Chinese players can play and enjoy our game, and understand our criticism of and reflection on America history and American culture.
Ryan带领的优秀中文本地化团队，历时四个月，为广大中国玩家把整个游戏翻译成了中文！不仅如此，他们还为游戏原声音乐重填了中文歌词！我们对此深感谦卑和欣慰，希望广大中国玩家既能玩得开心，也能了解到我们对美国历史、美国文化的批判和反思。

We know that China has its own wonderful and varied folklore in its thousands of years of history, and we hope that players there find our relatively small and brief American history and folklore to be interesting to them.
我们深知，中国在数千年的历史中，积淀了丰富多彩的民间传说。我们希望，中国玩家能对我们相对简短狭隘的美国历史和民间传说产生些许兴趣。

In addition, to honor the millions of Chinese-Americans generally overlooked in American history, we are also writing new stories for the game that focus more on the role of Chinese-Americans in the US. From miners in California to the railroad workers who bridged the continent to a whole host of other folks, Chinese immigrants have played a huge role in building this country. We're happy to be able to write more exploring their stories.
此外，为了表达我们对沉睡在美国历史中的万千普通华裔的敬意，我们正在为游戏撰写一批新的故事，着力关注华裔角色。从加州的矿工，到联结大路桥的铁路工人，中国移民为建设这个国家发挥过巨大的作用。我们很高兴能多多撰写探索他们的故事。

Today I am happy to release the free Chinese version of Fireside Chats, and to announce that we will release the full Chinese version of the game once we have finished the new content.
今天，我很高兴能首先发布免费中文版的《彼处水如酒：炉边夜话》，并宣布我们一旦完成新追加内容，就发布中文完整版游戏。

Thank you all for playing!
感谢您的赏玩！
2 comments Read more
November 15, 2018
Free 'Fireside Chats' Standalone Game, out now!
Hi Folks,

As a free companion game to WTWTLW, we've released "Fireside Chats". This contains new stories told by each of the 16 characters, plus the full first chapter conversation with Dire Wolf. This content is new and not seen in the full game.

You can find it here.

Thank you again for playing, and I hope you enjoy all these new tales, as well.
10 comments Read more
Reviews

“Where The Water Tastes Like Wine is a giant leap forward for video game storytelling”
9/10 – The Washington Post

“Where The Water Tastes Like Wine is a surprisingly beefy adventure game, offering over 20 hours of content and a treasure trove of stories that never cease to entertain. I laughed, reminisced about my own life, and enjoyed meeting the colorful cast of characters who opened up to me as time went on.”
9/10 – Game Informer

“There's nothing quite like it, and it's doubtful that there ever will be.”
8.5/10 – Destructoid
Special Wayfarer Edition

The Special Wayfarer Edition of Where The Water Tastes Like Wine includes its full hauntingly beautiful Original Digital Soundtrack arranged by celebrated composer Ryan Ike (provided as High Quality MP3 and FLAC files), and an Exclusive Illustrated Digital Artbook which chronicles the inspirations behind the game’s unique visual identity.
READ MORE
About This Game

Where the Water Tastes Like Wine is a Narrative-Adventure game about traveling, sharing stories, and surviving manifest destiny. Featuring gorgeous hand-drawn illustrations, Where the Water Tastes Like Wine combines 2D visuals with a 3D overworld US map.

Players wander across a folkloric Depression era United States at their own pace, meeting strangers with their own stories to tell. Through these interactions, players will be able to collect unique stories which can then be re-told to unlock new interactions. In this way the in-game stories themselves act as a currency to progress through the game, and it’s up to the player to pair the right story with the unique needs of each of the characters that you will encounter throughout your travels. Only through these right pairings will characters reveal their true selves, and bestow you with the most powerful stories, the true ones which reveal something about their own lives. In Where The Water Tastes Like Wine, stories organically take on a life of their own as they grow larger and transform as they're told- and re-told.
Game Features

    "Big Rock Candy Mountain? El Dorado? The place over the hill where they say the water tastes just like the sweetest wine?": Travel the Depression-Era United States, laboring to pay off a debt by learning the true stories of 16 signature characters across a wide range of American experience from migrant workers to a travelling preacher to a Navajo woman forcibly relocated on the Long Walk.
    "This whole land's built on stories; it's one big story, America is": As you explore, you'll encounter strange and unsettling things: slices of a country built on dust clouds and murky dreams, where the folk tales are bleeding through. You'll carry those tales with you, swapping them round campfires to make the cast of characters open up to you and share their own stories.
    "The greatest stories are the true ones; the ones people will tell you about their own lives": The stories you share will return to you along your journey, changed in the telling as they've made their way around the country. As you meet the characters time and again on your travels, they will grow to trust you and, hopefully, share their true selves with you. Only by learning all their real stories can you pay off your debt.
    Beautiful combination of 3D overworld and hand drawn 2D illustrations
    Original stories written by a wide selection of accomplished authors
    Fully voiced characters from all walks of life brought to life by world-renowned voice acting talent, including Sting, Dave Fennoy (The Walking Dead: A Telltale Game Series), Cissy Jones (Firewatch), Kimberly Brooks (Mass Effect), Sarah Elmaleh (Gone Home), Melissa Hutchison (The Walking Dead: A Telltale Game Series), Elizabeth Maxwell (The Legend of Zelda: Breath of The Wild), and many more.
    A hauntingly beautiful original soundtrack arranged by celebrated composer Ryan Ike and featuring performances from a collection of gifted musicians.
    An emerging fantastical, psychedelic and surreal overarching atmosphere.
    "I hope you find what you're looking for"

READ MORE
System Requirements
Windows
Mac OS X
SteamOS + Linux

    Minimum:
        OS: Windows 7, 8, 10
        Processor: Intel Core2 Duo E4500 (2 * 2200) or equivalent/AMD Athlon 64 X2 4200+ (2 * 2200) or equivalent
        Memory: 1 GB RAM
        Graphics: GeForce 8500 GT (512 MB)/Radeon HD 4350 (512 MB)
        DirectX: Version 9.0c
        Storage: 6 GB available space

See all
More like this
Finding Paradise
$9.99
A Bird Story
$3.99
Last Day of June
-60%
$19.99
$7.99
Pyre
$19.99
Blackout: The Darkest Night
Radiant One
$3.99
Always Sometimes Monsters
$9.99
N.E.R.O.: Nothing Ever Remains Obscure
$14.99
SUNLESS SKIES
$24.99
Shadowrun: Hong Kong - Extended Edition
-75%
$19.99
$4.99
OneShot
$9.99
Beholder
$9.99
View all
What Curators Say
48 Curators have reviewed this product. Click here to see them.
Customer reviews
Overall Reviews:
Very Positive (276 reviews)
Recent Reviews:
Mostly Positive (10 reviews)
Review Type
Purchase Type
Language
Date Range
Display As:
Review Beta NEW!
Show graph  
Filters
Your Languages
Review Helpfulness Beta Enabled
Showing 211 reviews that match the filters above ( Very Positive )
Most Helpful Reviews  In the past 90 days
Philippe_at_bay
319 products in account
21 reviews
Recommended
27.5 hrs on record
Posted: December 19, 2018
This game is a slightly flawed gem, a brilliantly conceived graphic novel set to music, rather than an Adventure game or an RPG.

The music is almost as important as the text, and the game-play, while it exists, is secondary.

To put everything in context, my own personal music tastes are focused on the 17th and 18th century. I only listen to 19th century music when I feel like listening to something modern.

Having said that, the music in this game is fantastic. You don't play the game to finish the story or get achievements, you play the game to listen to the Blues (and 20th century American Folk Music).

There are a few minor mechanical glitches which show up from time to time. When your avatar/character walks across the three dimensional map of the U.S., your facing will sometimes hiccup and go a little crazy. Annoying, but after a minute it usually calms down and you often find yourself disoriented and going in the wrong direction. Think of it as the wear and tear of living without a GPS system and sleeping rough.

The game has an astonishingly large assortment of vignettes and small stories, and since this is a game about story-telling, the fun is to watch how they evolve over time. What the game doesn't offer in traditional replay ability, it more than makes up for in variety and texture.

What's particularly refreshing about this game is that, for the most part, the writing doesn't feel like it's a by-product of a focus group. That may not be so good for the developers and the people who are trying to make money from this game, but it's great for the people who play it.
Read More
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
4 people found this review helpful
ragsta
554 products in account
11 reviews
Recommended
16.3 hrs on record
Posted: January 14
Where to start? In a lot of regards this game is a bit of a train wreck, and yet I still gave it a thumbs up. It has so many issues but the stories were good enough to keep me interested.

First off the biggest problem that plagues the game from start to finish is diabolical optimisation. It runs like♥♥♥♥♥♥regardless of what settings you put it on. It really detracts from the experience when every few steps the games frame rate tanks. Just awful and if this was any other game I would've given up after an hour.

The second is that theres a bunch of stuff in the game but it doesn't really seem to have any point, Money, Sleep and Health. Apparently you can die in the game but that neevr happened to me and I can't see how unless I had terrible luck.

The travel options are awful. Walking is slow and whistling clearly wasn't thought through. The whistling is so off and when you can still hear the music as you whistle and this annoying dog howling it's just obnoxious, what were they thinking? Hitchhiking is a gamble so I pretty much never use it. Trains are ok but again when you get the fast travel stuff I never used it. It all just feels superfluous.

The game relies on finding area to progress stories you collect but they are so few and far between, luckily you can eventually get a fast travel item to Jacksonville (actually takes you to Savannah, meh close enough I guess) where you can progress your stories quickly. It really feels like a game that wasn't tested at all before it was released.

There are issues with finding stories. I got to around 210 but can't find anymore. There was even a story hidden inside a mountain that I had to brute force to get. I can't tell if I played wrong or if this is a bug.

The actual progression and story is a bit weird and was confusing for the first few hours. I can forgive that, but the ending I just don't get. All that for what exactly? Probably some ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥t reason. Whatever. I mean it said part 3 for the ending but I never got a part 2. It turns out you need to die to get a part 2. Yeesh.

Everything gets repetitive very quickly in this game, I can't believe how long it is and really all you are doing is walking from the same places over and over. The exploration part is very shallow, this game is boiled down to slowly collect a bunch of eclectic stories.

The pro's, cool little stories and the setting and voice acting. The music get's annoying quickly though.

This game does not deserve a thumbs up but also not a tumbs down, definitely a middle score. What a bitter dissapointment but I feel like there are good ideas there. It needed a lot of more time, talent and resources though.
Read More
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
2 people found this review helpful
ThePCGamer
1,129 products in account
1113 reviews
Recommended
13.2 hrs on record
Posted: January 31
DISCLAIMER: This is a full review, and NOT a first impressions review

Where the Water Tasts Like Wine is a game developed by Dim Bulb Games and Serenity Forge and published by Good Shepard Entertainment

The game offers some pleasant graphics and really vibrant colours, although some ugly glitches here and there, it is pleasant all the same

The game does suffer with some repetitiveness at certain areas of the game but a fun game nontheless

Where the Water Tastes Like Wine overall, however, is a fun game to play in short bursts and a good adventure game to play, it's not for everyone, but it's a very interesting game to try out!

RECOMMENDED :)

REVIEW SOURCES:

    None

Read More
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
1 person found this review helpful
Glosoli
161 products in account
5 reviews
Recommended
11.8 hrs on record
Posted: December 29, 2018
Unlike other games I've played, and definitely on the slow side, but altogether a very unique and enjoyable experience. This is a game about Americana, storytelling, and myths/fables. You use stories as a form of currency as you travel across America, and your stories evolve like a game of telephone. Really gorgeous illustrations & wonderful music.

My gripes are mainly tech-related, as I had awful framerate issues in the main map (especially while whistling), on low settings, even with a reasonably good gaming rig. I also found the camera in the map to be clunky/frustrating.

Beyond that, though, I'd highly recommend this to anyone into unique narrative games/American history.
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
2 people found this review helpful
fluffy tuft
133 products in account
2 reviews
Recommended
1.8 hrs on record
Posted: December 26, 2018
beautiful and annoying. quite an experience. some aspects give me a really bad headache. would recommend to anyone who is fine with drinking every time they play this so they can cope with side effects.
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
2 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny
CorvusCorvid
10 products in account
1 review
Recommended
4.5 hrs on record
Posted: January 18
The perfect game for the eclectic soul. A phenomenal sound track and so many stories to hear, you'd be a fool not to play it. Only cons about the game is that when it comes to telling stories it is not really explained how to come up with a useful combination of tales. This, however, doesn't really take away from the game itself. Please play, I promise that it put the sweet taste of wine in your mouth. ;D
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
2 people found this review helpful
Chaotiс_Evil
560 products in account
32 reviews
Recommended
12.5 hrs on record
Posted: December 22, 2018
amazing ... probably the strongest emotional writing I have ever seen in games.
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
2 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny
BazBake
624 products in account
57 reviews
Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: December 23, 2018
In the vein of 80 Days, Where the Water Tastes Like Wine distills the adventure genre down to core axes of choice. While there are consequences for your decisions that reverberate almost immediately through the game world, things are a bit more nuanced under the hood than one would expect, and that lies in how the game uses storytelling as its primary mechanic.

As a wanderer caught up in a mystical grifter's scheme to spread story throughout the world and bring it back, your job is to experience Depression-era American life and then share those experiences with people you meet along the way. I'm withholding spoilers, but I can say that about fifteen minutes into this game I was already kind of in love as I bounced from a hard choice on my first adventure to an unexpectedly heartwarming encounter involving hospitality and romance, all while folk music played in the background and I debated whether to hitchhike to cover more ground or play the button-pressing minigame to speed up my walking speed by whistling.

The mechanic can feel a bit obtuse when hearing about it, but the gist of it is that you find interesting locations by navigating an open-world map of the United States which you are free to explore at your leisure. You play out these encounters through a visual novel format, the theme and results and therefore genre of which transform based on your decisions. You relate these stories later to varying results. And these stories will help solve problems and develop friendships with 16 other unique travelers who have their own especially interesting stories to share with you.

What's special about all of this is that the stories you tell and learn aren't static. Time leads them to transformation and embellishment. Some stories you have can be absolutely truthful, but sometimes other people swap the details around, which leads to your story becoming a tall tale. Some audiences really enjoy a fantasy, others are searching for truth, and as you hang out at the campfire or in a bar you'll slowly start to read the audience and get closer to what they need.

I don't know if most people would be interested in a game like this, but it is both unique and mechanically and narratively effective at doing what it set out to do, which is why I'm hesitatant to give an actual score. It's exactly what it wants to be and is incredibly good at it. Highly recommended.
Read More
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
1 person found this review helpful
typhra_
120 products in account
8 reviews
Recommended
3.0 hrs on record
Posted: December 25, 2018
Such an unique game!
The soundtrack is utterly amazing as well as the voice acting.
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
1 person found this review helpful
Most Helpful Reviews  In the past 30 days
Maheyhey
11 products in account
1 review
Not Recommended
25.7 hrs on record
Posted: February 22
Where the Water Tastes Like Wine started off great. I love stories, and being able to walk around America finding unique stories to tell to other people was intriguing. The stories you find grow as you tell them to others, and it became my favorite thing to listen to the stories that evolved and see how they changed in the telling. Some of the stories
even grew into recognizable American folktales.

The game has quality writing and I appreciate how this game focuses on people from all walks of life during the Great Depression. The voice acting was on point, and the music was beautiful (though it does get repetitive after playing this game for 24 hours).

I didn't really enjoy the travelling mechanisms because there are downsides to all forms of travel

-Whistling (which makes you walk faster): if you're using a keyboard and mouse like I am the controls to do whistling are uncomfortable and don't make any sense since you have to let go of the mouse which points you in the direction you want to go.

-Hitchhiking: You can't choose where to get out. The car drops you off wherever so you can easily miss the place you were hoping to go or not even reach the place you wanted to go.

-Hopping a Train: 50/50 chance of losing all your health.

-Buying a Train Ticket: You have to use all your money and you aren't able to travel too far.

but I was able to get pass this flawed part of the game because of how fun the rest of it was.

So you might be wondering why I don't recommend this game if I enjoyed it so much.

I ran into a bug. An irritating one that has frustrated me to no end and will frustrate any completionist. There is a bug that does not allow you to find all the stories in the game. I'm not sure if this happens to everyone, but it happened to me and after browsing the Steam forums for this game it appears to have happened to many others. I've spent hours trying to figure out what I have to do to get the rest of the stories to appear and I find it frustrating that this game has been out for a year and a fix for it still has yet to be released.

To try to find these stories that are marked on the map but aren't showing up when you go the location I've traveled back and forth across America more than 15 times. This might not seem like a lot, but with the poor selection of travelling choices it got tiring fast. It also made me aware of how unnecessary the whole health/sleep mechanic is. I can see it adds a layer of difficulty in a way, but for the type of game this is I don't understand why it has to be "difficult".

There were other bugs (like how it's hard to scroll through your list of stories in a certain Tarot category once they grow past 3) and performance issues (like how slow it runs) so after all the hours put into this all of these problems have become glaringly obvious and frustrating.

Because of all these bugs and issues I cannot in good conscience recommend this game to anyone, especially when it is being sold for $20.

tldr; This game, because of all its bugs, is not for a completionist. If you're looking for a quick game with a good story then you'll probably enjoy it, though I wouldn't pay full price for it.
Read More
 
Was this review helpful? Yes No Funny
1 person found this review helpful
Recently Posted
Belzeenef
5.8 hrs
Posted: March 10
Pro : Good little stories from an interesting era, nice writting and voice over, graphism satisfying. I really enjoyed hearing the exagerated version of stories, chinese wisper at it's best.

Minor Con : Personnally I find the music got repetitive quickly, a bit like a radio chanel having only one playlist. Because it's actual songs and not background music you get the "oh no not that song again!" feel. And you whistle the same tune over and over again.

Magor Con : And the walking... Oh the walking... It turned a pretty chilled game into a frustrating experience, where you do piano exercises with you keyboard to whistle (makes you walk a little faster), which also annoying to the ears. In addition for foreign keyboards some fonction overlaps and you can't hitch a ride.
It ruins the game and it's hard to pass over that...

The need to sleep, have money and health seems unecessary in this sort of game but hey, I don't mind the apples thieft break, reinforce the vagabon experience I suppose.
Read More
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
Glitch
6.3 hrs
Posted: March 8
Please Please Please, Patch the controls

I've been streaming WTWTLW for two nights now and as much as I love it I am REALLY fighting the walking controls.

My Issues:

It doesn't lock the cursor to the screen, this is doubly bad when coupled with the fact that attempting to turn the character is very slow, so if I turn left my cursor moves to my second screen.

Said camera controls freak out often and unpredictably.

Right click seems to change the perspective, but unreliably, it often takes some clicking and shaking to get the perspective right (why you have a top-down view I’ll never understand, there's no point and you should be able to set the camera to "over-the-shoulder" with view of the horizon)

Oh my god the Inventory Management system if unforgivable. Only being able to see the three currently equipped stories means hunting through a dreadful UI system with no apparent option to NOT equip an unequipped story (as in, when I'm hunting for one have to "swap" stories to even SEE the other ones I have, seriously WTF!)

I watched this game at launch and the fact these egregious, glaring problems still exist makes me feel like you made half of an awesome game and then dropped it like a hot sack of crap. Poor form.
Read More
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
Picosaurus
6.5 hrs
Posted: March 4
Many years ago there was the game version of "Indian in the Cupboard" that had a great Native American chief that would tell these great stories from Native American history. This game, over ten years later, is the closest thing that I have experienced and I love it. Highly recommend.
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
RancidCheeto
2.5 hrs
Posted: February 23
Where the water taste's like wine is an amazingly fun story driven game, the style suits it perfectly. The characters and their story are incredibly engaging, and the mechanics of traveling combine together to make you feel like a hobo in the great depression traveling. I also like how you can see how your tales change throughout towns, the farther and longer you get from the origin of the tale.
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
Jilliterate
43.2 hrs
Posted: February 19
[I'm going to preface this with something very important: if you chose to buy this, please, play it with a gamepad/controller. My default choice is always keyboard/mouse, and using these, the game felt a little bit…clunky? I found an interview with one of the developers saying the game was made with a controller in mind, and switching made a world of difference. The camera swings around so much smoother, and even the menus are easier to browse, surprisingly.]

This game was such an utter delight that I can't recommend it enough. As a faceless, nameless protagonist, you undertake a bittersweet journey as you wander across an atemporal America, tasked with collecting small stories. A catchy soundtrack shifts depending on where in America you are, and the landscape that spreads out around you looks like an oil painting. The world design is wonderful; as you criss-cross the map, the names of states slide along borders, and river titles trickle by with the flow of the water. It's a charming visual trick, but it also serves to enforce the games themes: even as you gather the pieces of small stories, the bigger picture, and how it affects those who live in It, matters too.

Occasionally, you'll meet an NPC around a campfire to exchange stories. The NPCs will take your stories and pass them on, allowing them to grow, and in return, they tell you some details of their own stories. All of these NPCs have something in common: they are forgotten figures who have slipped between the cracks of the great American dream, pushed between those sliding borders by larger forces beyond their control, although some hope that they can make things change for the better.

This theme, of the dark underbelly of America that might not be a dream for those who are impoverished, working class, queer, and/or non-white, runs throughout the game, appearing again and again -- and it's your duty to make their stories heard. It's a haunting game, but it has moments of joy and humour, as well. Where the Water Tastes Like Wine has a lot to say, in more ways than one. You should give it a listen.
Read More
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
DudeManGuy1990
0.7 hrs
Posted: February 12
I like a lot about this game. It has great atmosphere and story. But, you move way way too slow i cant play it.
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
KasemAnerin
8.7 hrs
Posted: February 1
This game is perfect for anyone interested in storytelling and the great americana. If you are a fan of The American Gods by Neil Geiman and stories behind games like Red Dead Redemption this one is a must have.
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
Victor
1.5 hrs
Posted: January 24
Let's be honest, it's one of those games where there isn't really any 'game' in them. So, that's that. It's a hybrid of reading and walking simulator. But that's fine - that's actually what I had expected: A relaxed experience of hearing and telling stories while listening to good music. Well, I got neither. The stories are empty and boring so far. Maybe they will 'grow' into something more interesting after perhaps 10 or 15 hours but I just couldn't be asked. As for music, you get about 4-5 tracks, which are pretty decent, but that's all. You hear them again and again and again. Sorry, you couldn't possibly ask someone to pay 20 bucks for this. Just to be fair, the idea that you collect and spread stories and then the stories grow as they are being told is cool, and the game is overall polished, but this game is a prime example of style over substance. The dev team should have spent more time and budget on the actual stories themselves, instead of pointless game mechanics like train travelling which adds nothing to the experience.
Read More
 
Helpful? Yes No Funny
Browse all 319 reviews
ABOUT STEAM ABOUT VALVE HELP NEWS FEEDS

Valve Software
Valve Software
© 2019 Valve Corporation. All rights reserved. All trademarks are property of their respective owners in the US and other countries.
VAT included in all prices where applicable.   Privacy Policy   |   Legal   |   Steam Subscriber Agreement   |   Refunds

About Valve   |  Steamworks   |  Jobs   |  Steam Distribution   |  Gift Cards   |   Steam   |   @steam_games
