Jason Rohrer is an independent game artist, programmer, and critic.  With game designs that explore complex and subtle aspects of the human condition, his work has bolstered the acceptance of games as a serious art form.  Rohrer's games have been shown at festivals and art exhibitions in Park City, Toronto, Montreal, Pittsburgh, Los Angeles, Seattle, and Lleida, Spain.  His 2007 release, /Passage/, received widespread critical acclaim, with /Wired/'s Clive Thompson writing, "More than any game I've ever played, it illustrates how a game can be a fantastically expressive, artistic vehicle for exploring the human condition."  His 2008 release, /Gravitation/, won the Jury Prize at IndieCade, and /Between/ won the Innovation Award at the 2009 Independent Games Festival.  Rohrer was featured in Esquire's December 2008 "Genius Issue" along with 27 other innovators.  He lives with his spouse and two children in Las Cruces, New Mexico, where they pursue a simple, frugal lifestyle.



Short bio:

Jason Rohrer is an independent game artist, programmer, and critic.  His 2007 release, /Passage/, received widespread critical acclaim, with /Wired/'s Clive Thompson writing, "More than any game I've ever played, it illustrates how a game can be a fantastically expressive, artistic vehicle for exploring the human condition."  His 2008 release, /Gravitation/, won the Jury Prize at IndieCade, and /Between/ won the Innovation Award at the 2009 Independent Games Festival.  Rohrer was featured in Esquire's December 2008 "Genius Issue" along with 27 other innovators.



Short short version:

Jason Rohrer is an independent game designer and programmer.  Over the past six years, he has released 14 games, of which /Passage/ is the most widely known.  His 2008 release, /Gravitation/, won the Jury Prize at IndieCade, and /Between/ won the Innovation Award at the 2009 Independent Games Festival.  His 2010 storytelling game, /Sleep Is Death/, was both a critical and commercial success.  Back in 2008, he was featured in Esquire's "Genius Issue" along with 27 other innovators.



New no-BS first-person bio.


Since 2004, I have designed, programmed, and released 19 games:  Transcend, Cultivation, Passage, Gravitation, Perfectionism, Idealism, Police Brutality, Immortality, Regret, i45hg, Crude Oil, Between, Primrose, Sleep Is Death, Inside a Star-filled Sky, and Diamond Trust of London, The Castle Doctrine, Cordial Minuet, and One Hour One Life.
