Beyond Our Grasp

Like most game designers, I'm a life-long game player, but looking back from year thirty-two, I've noticed a troublesome pattern that seems to be shared by other people my age.  As I passed through my twenties, fewer and fewer mainstream games appealed to me.  The past six years has brought a severe dry spell, with only a small handful of games feeling like they were worth my time.

Much noise has been made over the idea of games "growing up."  Can't we augment our library of candy-colored dream worlds and tween male gun-fests with a few games about the things that matter to grown ups?  Moral dilemmas,  relationships, and other mature stuff like that.  Okay, that sounds doable, and given that the average age of a gamer is 35, the money is ready and willing.

I recently got a PS3, nearly four years into its life cycle with 600 games in its library.  What should I play?  Games with interesting dramatic choices like /Fallout 3/ (nuke or don't nuke an entire town?) and /Heavy Rain/ (be strict or lenient with my kid?) seem like they were made just for my supposedly-mature tastes.  Nuclear war.  Parenthood.  Games have finally grown up.  But something was still missing.

I could critique these games from a design perspective, discussing player choices, drama engines, or simulation vs. authorship.  Maybe what's missing is better mechanical design, and we can imagine some mythical future game that gets it all right.  But I don't think that's it.

Along with being a life-long game player, I've also been a life-long film watcher, but I haven't noticed a similar dearth of worthwhile films as I've gotten older.  I can barely keep up with all the recent stand-outs like  /No Country for Old Men/, /Antichrist/, or /Synecdoche, New York/, nor can I exhaust the archives of weighty films like /Naked/, /Safe/, or /3 Women/.

So what sets these films apart?  Try to sum up what each of them is about.  Not just on the surface, like what is written on the DVD jacket ("a drug deal gone bad and a suitcase full of money"), but what they are about at their cores.  You will struggle.  You will stammer.  You will find yourself reaching for words that you cannot quite grasp.

And that is what we are missing.  Reaching.

What are games /about/?  Why can we sum them up in a few sentences without missing anything?  Why do we come away from them with nothing to think about and little gained beyond the transient enjoyment of playing?

Our stand-out games happen to be the ones that reach---maybe just a tiny bit, but that's enough to set them apart.  /BioShock/.  /Portal/.  /Shadow of the Colossus/.  What is /BioShock/ about?  "The downfall of Randian Objectivism."  Yes, you can sum it up, but at least its a mouthful.  At least it sends you scrambling for Wikipedia.

These tiny reaches aren't good enough, though.  I'm calling for gigantic reaches, reaches big enough to carry us forward into the territory of foundation-shaking, transformational experiences, into the home turf of films like /Synecdoche/ (whose title alone will send you to Wikipedia).

Reaching sounds financially risky, and reaching with a novel mechanical design probably is.  My proposition is far more modest:  designers must reach with what their games are about.  Go ahead and make a by-the-book FPS or cash-cow sequel.  But when you're sculpting your game's soul, don't stop pushing until your fingertips are barely brushing a tiny corner of something frighteningly enormous.

Forget the overly-simple earmarks of "maturity".  March us, as game players, right to the edge of the abyss.  Then shove us in.