 in roughly the same direction.

When Oedipa got home she cried, didn't know how much, for many long minutes, and then came up with that often enough, two people's wanton moments being too much. Wendell lay across the back seat of her car and was sitting up when she arrived home. She started holding him more carefully, so as not to bump his head on the window, and almost drifted off until she could think of little else. "In other words, I won't remember my husband's name, Wendell," she told herself.

 "Or maybe it won't be him, and I'll know who died." She opened her window and sat down with her arms on the steering wheel and turned the key. "I won't be able to take it, won't be able to get there."

She lost two hours, wasn't able to drive. She was sad. And maybe this wasn't the time to get angry. Oedipa had something of a position of privilege; she had just come through a dozen solid months with the murder of one man and a whole quarter of a century of acquaintance with that same man, when the only memory she could derive was of his unholy ghost that seemed to hide away as often as it was borne up to meet it. Was that at all real, her itchy sense that somebody was out there who wasn't quite supposed to be there, trailing slowly across the sun-kissed fields of lowlands and behind the straight and narrow lanes of what appeared to be an English village?

What happened in the fall of 1966 and early 1967 wasn't the best of times, but if she had to go by only the state's case and two sworn affidavits, it was almost a minute of serenity, of innocence and solemn and serene and standing still against what seemed to her something unanswerable and impenetrable. Wendell had been at her wedding, at the time of her conception, to Douglas Hurley, the college chaplain, and two months into their marriage he'd dropped dead, her first husband. They'd gone with him to England; Oedipa, soon to be out of school, turned their money and one of their summer houses in Carmel, Pennsylvania, into a dowry for Wendell's widow, Susan. So the state wanted an order from Indiana requiring Wendell to refund to Susan $1.4 million for an Ann Arbor education she never received. That order had come down from a January 12th hearing in Georgetown in the case of HJ Warthen, a Pennsylvania antique dealer who'd gone to the a fair in Ann Arbor in 1961 and died in January 1962 without ever being accounted for. So now, with Wendell Warthen settled on the Texas coast in a beautiful large house, Oedipa Maas and her mother-in-law were being sued in an Oklahoma land office for $300,000 on the grounds that Wendell had walked away with the $1.4 million in inheritance she'd earned while attending the University of Michigan and he'd taken it without contributing anything to it. He'd received only a cold, meager sum, a few thousand dollars more than he'd said he earned when he spoke at their wedding, then started to work on the Michigan annuity, so that this was the second time the scheme had been exposed. Susan had said she understood he was sorry but it was too late to pay it back. All this brought Oedipa, a Mary Tyler Moore-like naïve young woman of thirty who had never had any experience of the world beyond her little imaginary bedroom, to tears, tears filled with grief for herself and, yes, then for everyone in her family, whom she knew to have been shaken and confused by their own humiliation. She did not expect many parents or aunts and uncles to say "Oh, it's over. We'd better get a move on," or to go home, but her brother, Jonathan, at twenty-two had got a job in Arizona, or perhaps, just possible, in Ann Arbor, had asked him to give him a chance to learn something and "find himself." Jonathan, who'd been highly ambitious his whole life, had reacted as if the chances of him settling for any of the options offered by adulthood were zero, and you don't run away from the dream of life, the will to not just play but to create, not just to support and encourage and lean on everybody, then say to somebody, Get out, Oedipa, and then to make sure his koi pond was cleaned and planted and things were alright, was so mysterious. He'd stopped going to the church to which he had belonged before college and started to read John Updike or Bill Bryson or Edna O'Brien, and later, of course, Douglas Coupland. The fiction, of course, was always good fun. The biography, though, hadn't. He thought of a cute boy at school named Jonathan Michaels, a half-brother whose dead-eyed inattention made him feel irritated and cruel, says the grandfather, and spent hours and hours on the Internet, searching for no purpose at all (it wouldn't have been too much trouble, he says, to find out that Jonathan Michaels was Jonathan Meyer, but Jonathan Michaels doesn't want anyone knowing, he says). Jonathan had recently moved to Arizona and was then living in a random house with a guy named Robert J. Newman, Michael Lucas's brother, and doing "puttering about in a lot of bars and recording some B-movies," says his grandfather, who would have listened to Jonathan Michaels narrate them (because that was what the movies said, anyway) but couldn't because Jonathan Michaels had just broken up with a girl he had called Mommy. The grandfather sits at a spiral staircase in the former house with a curious shape of crumpled bills stacked like paper pancakes along its trim, under which he keeps a package of Kleenex. He says that Jonathan Michaels would be surprised to hear about what that guy Newman had to say about him, and believes that his old and beautiful son Wendell may be able to fill in the blanks. His question about Wendell's friend Walter Paulson, who'd also met up with Paul B. Rochford at Harvard, is a reasonable one: Is Walter Paulson stupid or an idiot? An old woman in a town-house on Great Edward Avenue has been watching news in the flats and says nothing, for all that the shade between her vacant blue eyes and the silver curls in her hair is more elegant than the surrounding dreariness. Her only complaint is that the absence of wind would make it more comfortable for her to lie on a couch in the window seat of her living room. There's a tenant at the foot of the stairs with her nine-month-old son in tow, in an even smaller apartment than the woman in the townhouse, who is currently in what she calls "slightly friendly" conversation with her boyfriend, Richard Anderson (the two are not related, of course, but they are almost too similar to expect she'll ever guess). The news network has told them about a march scheduled for Green Mountain, but they both say they think they've been told to skip it and they haven't.

Down below in the hamlet of Thurston, at the base of the American River, in the backyard of the Packard Historic Estate, on the outskirts of North Bend, Wash., Marley and his mother have just begun singing along to a static cover of a song called "America the Beautiful." What they're singing about, all along, isn't the beautiful America, it's the racist America, the place from which a bushel and a half of it disappeared between the migrations that took place in the thirties, 'forties, and 'sixties. It's the place where the natural drift of the public schools and the passing of the original zoning regulations, redrawn at this address thirty years ago, dropped the black American from this formerly white rural town and gave it almost ninety percent white citizens. They know something that nobody else at all in Thurston knows, and Marley can't explain why, what does it all have to do with Wistfull, the Scandinavian setting of the Packard mansion, but the point is made.

It is mid-afternoon, and the traffic is constantly busy. It's only the end of winter, and there is always somewhere to go. Something has to get done: the Marley and Beatrice have chosen a community meeting place on the edge of town, where the house once belonged to the Jay Gould family and whose trustees put up the twenty-five-thousand-dollar donation to build the Packard mansion. Marley has spent much of the past couple of years in North Bend, finding himself among people whose first question of every meeting is "What's up with you?", or asking him to tell them where it's on the map, when in fact his country cannot find out the last piece of information about his current whereabouts. A sunny afternoon in March, a little before three, with the Pacific rushing by, was warm enough to make the distance blur. As Beatrice took their seats, the room swelled with chatter: Marley's blond hair was fraying from its tightness by the sweat of his body. The patrons were all dressed in shorts and T-shirts, and the lights were dimmed; so Beatrice's sawdust brown knickers and his thin air-conditioned pants, a cloth wrapped around his ankles, hung on the back of his chair. To his side, Harlan Terlaine, the minister, was writing a half-hearted prayer. Marley, his hands in his pockets, listened intently. "Just a little bit down!" As Beatrice spoke she looked down at Marley. "A little bit of a shock, it must have been," she said. "I thought you'd been expecting it." Marley's fingers twisted in his lap. He laughed slowly. "As I should, you know." A second later he was smiling. "It's all right. A few days ago I had a nightmare that made me realize how much I loved the Four Lads. I dreamed I had the strangest dream in the world. They were in a big old mansion, big pictures, over-stuffed room, just beautiful. One had a gas mask on. They went to a room, and suddenly I didn't recognize them anymore. You know how it is—you grow up, you change. They were the Four Lads. They were on my side, you know. Who was I to stop them? I want to help them, keep this world as it is. What's the big fuss about me helping them out?" He looked at Harlan. "I just told the mayor, he's a very nice man. I told him that things are going to be alright. He said, I bet they are. Just a little less than the Normal Family. He just said, "They're going to all get along just fine." Harlan peered at Beatrice, shifting in her chair. He laughed suddenly and stepped back. "All right. How about you, Lorraine?" "All right. I'm here." She stared at him, eyes wide. "Let's go outside and meet some of these people." "No, wait, don't do that." Beatrice put down the wine glass. "It's a nice day." Harlan leant forward and grabbed her by the shoulders. "Okay. Who else do you know?" "You," he murmured, smiling. "We met at Nashua." He turned. "And Miss Maas is your neighbor." The next afternoon, around two o'clock, during a drive home, Beatrice said something about their town not really being a good place, something that left Harlan speechless, at once certain that she'd merely been a little dramatic and certain that that had just been what he needed, too. He laughed. "I've never been to Nashua," he said. "The girls in there talk as though it were populated by nudists." "Don't be ridiculous." Harlan didn't look at her, just hummed along as if it were another joke. Beatrice rolled her eyes, stopped the car. "You shouldn't be so impressed by others." Harlan didn't even move his head. "It's nice to know there are people who like me."

Harlan Beatrice Maas was born in Nebraska in 1937. The family was quite affluent. The father was a pastor at a church in Kenosha, and as a teenager they moved to Baton Rouge, where Mr. Maas began a career in publishing, which he ended, as he felt, on winning the Pulitzer. He and Beatrice were the only children. After high school, she studied at the University of Missouri, where her married professors found her congenial. They encouraged her in theater, folk dance, and then played a game they called "taking the last two words out of the title." She was bored. "Harold is a genius," she'd say. Harlan would say, "Why are you such a genius?" She had a tendency to drag him into something he wanted to get out of—She thought of it as the lighting thing. Maybe it was the world just not being fair to him. She found reading among her college roommates, Jean Bryan's short stories. She finished high school in England, in Newark, where her father was a vicar and where she grew up on a farm with two older brothers and a sister, whom she described fondly as "her country cousin." At the university, in rural Missouri, she took her first experimental course in social psychology. "They were black and white," she said, "and every night in the late afternoons they would have a show. They had cats, and people spoke, they were funny, and they learned social psychology. And it was fascinating." She wasn't on the varsity tennis team. She didn't join a fraternity. She had a word coming. She was smart enough to realize that nobody had a monopoly on creativity. The principle of groupthink meant that everyone knew, everyone looked up to, nobody dared question. It was good for the students to be in a safe, nurturing place. In college, she identified as "a canard" (as in the poetry she read in her spare time), moved off campus to New York City and then to San Francisco. "The whole point was to get away," she said. "I just wanted to be anonymous. I was not interested in being a student." She worked at a bar in SoMa, and in the summers was a front-desk receptionist at a real estate office. She wrote poetry, designed packages, did volunteers, went shopping in Honolulu for her children (she had a small apartment with a mezzanine, on the back side of the third floor, as had her parents) and ran a psychedelic Web-show business from her bedroom, performing the works of Alex Grey at the end of a white-elephant elevator ride that was the old Stax R&B. She spent more and more time in a Buddhist monastery in San Francisco. "There were some good guys there," she said. "I don't know what that did. My badness was connected with being so young." She turned forty-one, and eventually tried for a degree in history, but found a professor on the faculty who'd read more novels by George Eliot than he did books by Anthony Trollope, and from that she'd learn to write. "It was my favorite thing I ever did, which is amazing, because everything I've ever done, I think, sucked, and it was fun and I enjoyed it." When she began to write as if she was an actual novelist, as she had intended, in 1991, there was a disaster. She sold the best part of it to Doubleday for eight hundred thousand dollars. There was a chap who edited it who said there was nothing there, that it was a rambling letter to a ghost from some kind of tiny country in the Pacific Northwest. There was a new editor who gave her a bigger book to revise, and Oedipa, like an Indian with her power, let it happen. The final result is the best novel of her life, in the way that the strongest hamburger you have in your house is better than all the ones you'd put together in a kitchen by yourself—except, perhaps, the final combination: of a butternut squash-parmesan ciabatta, sprinkled with edible pistachio florets, and a bed of sprouted medjool dates. Oedipa's mental effort to describe her life in outline can be disheartening, she said. "I'm always giving an example that's as good as it gets and it's like, 'That's great but it's not life, man!' " If anything, her life has gotten more complicated since then. The last years she was living in Capetown, the country seat of her late father-in-law's multi-million-dollar entertainment corporation, an unlikely post. Sitting in the library, I heard her go on about the need to learn more than what she did know about running a company—in other words, what her father had said as he should have taught her when she was a child.

There's a chapter on Oedipa's father-in-law, Percy Wilson. "I want people to know what he was really like. There's a weird folk hero in England of this sort, kind of quite despotic, just like him," she wrote. "He was an erratic ex-colonialist who had an ophidian-like grasp of being deeply traumatized by a napalm attack in Vietnam and began trying to get everyone he met to join his Walkabout, an armed uprisings against the Anglophone colonial states of Africa. Basically the story was that he went down there and made these dreams up about how the colonists were going to come back and make everything better and he had this way of demonstrating that by being the puppet leader of these people that he had come to see themselves as one big non-dog ever—and I want people to know that that's what it was like to have a crazy mother-in-law—this guy has invented wars, he's invented wars against the Indians, he's invented wars against everyone else, there are all kinds of things he's brought me into and not allowed me to leave, and I've been there from the beginning—he gets to being the ultimate leader of this Walkabout of the Tribes. And that's what he always portrayed himself as."

Her father had gone by the name Wilson, had been a free-lance publisher and publisher of cartoon books, had been a man of many books. He had many titles: Muddy Waters: His Political Career, Frederick Jackson Turner's Possessed, One Hundred and One Years of Superfluous Names and Supersetting Sentences, and many novels. Oedipa's mother, Jane Elizabeth Pettigrew Wilson, had also been a historian—all-inclusive, a former enginemaker—and had just married Wendell, who she had identified as about four foot eleven inches in height, but, Oedipa told him, not much taller than Oedipa. She went on, citing two things he had done, speaking with his ex-wife, Lillie Mundy Wilson, who had told Oedipa she thought Wendell had been married twice. They had married once, and twice. It was true, it was a fact, he had. And because Wendell had told Oedipa it wasn't true. Oedipa, she argued to herself, had won on the question of what had happened. She had lost nothing. She could still win on the question of whether Wendell was to blame.

Hegel had called the act of writing, writing, the act of living an act of meaning, of communing with other lives. He'd written, she wrote, and lived his life, and in doing so, even as he spent the excess of his life on furthering the achievement of his expression, he would live in an act of reality.
 The success or failure of his act was one event but he would live, for better or worse, on through his character, his actions. But did he live the fictional act of writing too, or just write the literary person he was at that moment and what others were saying about him and what he was doing?

***

Thursday afternoon the Hattiesburg Post ran an editorial titled "I Live in a World in which the West is the West. Do We Need to Recognize It?" The writer, Theodore C. Maher, commended Professor Oedipa's will for "explaining a phenomenon which many thought to be the product of a mythology no longer operative, or at least susceptible of clarification." He went on:

Now, in this insistent democratic age, the prestige of objectivity seems more and more untenable. Such objective information is, however, vital, and it is also fraught with issues which affect all of us. With all this in mind, I would like to suggest that these issues as they relate to college campuses should take some time for serious discussion. Obviously, what Oedipa has done in her Will was done for a purpose. She was a young lady who read widely. If she reads even more, there is still more that could have been done. Oedipa and I will have to continue this dialogue and one of us may have to take more responsibility for this last act of real estate planning.

He closed the piece on a version of the academic argument which sees the search for an objective truth as a combination of the two functions of the scholar, critical inquiry and active scholarship. He argued for the need for the first on balance, while clearly in agreement with the opposing points of view. His account of the time that followed can be found here, as can Sarah Lovell's piece as well, "A Visiting Student Experiences College." A thorough explanation of the post-death debate is available on hachette dot com/archives, beginning here.

Where the Issue Was Flawed


In Linguistics and Philosophy (2013) Xiana Raya was for the Supreme Court. I thought she had some valid points, but she and Susan Wolfers are proposing a new objectivist rule against what they call reductive critique. She does so partly by an appeal to the history of its construction, and this is certainly relevant, but there is a fundamentally flawed section of her book, one which is already well known. The claim that such critique leads to instability is, to be sure, one which most advocates of naturalism would reject out of hand, but the problem is that there are indeed critiques which have led to collapse. Much of what is called methodological naturalism is in fact the result of such critiques, and the fact that "dogmatism" has become a synonym for "dishonest naturalism" is a red herring. There is, however, an inherent dishonesty here. For example, in his discussion of Descartes, Dewey is wrong to blame Descartes for the failure of the revisionist movement, because Dewey believed that it was possible to refute Descartes' own "fundamental propositions" (such as "every effect is also a cause" and "there is only one material thing") even if you came up with an entirely different conception of time. And just because Descartes' metaphysics is riddled with flawed logical arguments (such as the "hanging regress") or is demonstrably "cartesian nonsense" (as Smith put it) does not mean that only the "philosophers" can raise the question of whether it is simply too much work to figure out an alternative metaphysics.


 These "philosophers" are real people who just happen to be doing physics, whose "philosophical principles" and "neurological results" have made them real scientists and real scholars, and all are doing their best to answer the question of whether Descartes' method was truly and exhaustively true. They cannot do it because, fundamentally, they don't believe it. If Dewey (and, it seems, most other "scientific naturalists" and "philosophers") are correct, then the question of whether a method is true is no longer a philosophical question, but an empirical one. If "Pair Programming" works well, then you're not fundamentally altering the world, you're only adjusting the behavior of your partner. (For the same reasons that if you look at the quantum chromodynamics of a single electron it looks like a huge ball of what appears to be solid polystyrene, it is a real universe, but is weirder in some subtle ways than the conception we have of it as a big ball of black jelly).

In any case, the single-line letter said that Pierce had ended the brief affair with her. "The purpose of the undertaking is your consolation, Oedipa, and that of your children." The letter was signed, though obviously it was out of the hands of their attorney, but it was unmistakable that Pierce wrote it himself. Oedipa read through it like it was a thousand sentences, processed it like information, like an account of his childhood, and had the sense that it explained what he had done on that May evening, if he had done it, as opposed to how he did it, as well as how she might have tried to adjust for whatever wonderful and inconvenient timing she had missed in arranging for them to meet. She felt there was something very good, very wholesome in that, something in the idea of an affair in the company of someone you loved, and maybe she had been wrong to have pulled away. This was nice, a page in the real history, something she'd most want to erase from her mind, and maybe stop. She would have just written it down and given it to her lawyer, or even her husband, if she could have, had she known he had it.

Mizz Oedipa, you made it, and that is marvelous. But I think there is something else, Oedipa. If you were sure that you needed it, you could leave it in that spring box. How about this, on a closing note, Oedipa? Did you tell Wendell about this letter? Did you tell him the ceremony to rename her will included an affidavit from Wendell that he had read it, and it was endorsed? Did he tell her the joint funeral was scheduled for Friday, June 1? How many other visits have you made to the grave since? Maybe you should hang on to the middle one.

It was not until Wednesday, Saturday, and Sunday, and sometimes Monday, that Oedipa saw him. He arrived on the three-hour excursion from Harvard, in a limousine, and through the glass door into the lobby at the Huntington Bank at 7:45. There was the bad part: he couldn't resist showing off. He hugged her, he kissed her, he pinched her. He spoke about how they had said we want to go outside, to a spot out near Mount Kitts, which he then dismissed with, "Never mind, we'll never, ever find that." He told her he was proud to know her. She left there a mess. The first time he tried to tell her about the fax from N.F.L. lawyers to the Enquirer, about how Robert Irsay had stolen her for entertainment, she did not know what to do. He said, "I don't know," she said, "he said we can talk," and they did, but he told her that he, her father, had received a letter from Dwayne Doershe left on his dressing table after dinner, read it, then left it on his dressing table at 6:15 the next morning. She would not tell Oedipa how many pages it was. She would later tell the FBI that it was only half a page and that in a pencil-thin handwriting that was raggedy. He told her that it was signed N.F.L. and that the letters were not as long as they were long-tallied, and made a picture of himself, his long hair at last in place and a blue dress, unbuttoned, except for her darkening lippets, knees bent, in the air with her in one arm, and a hockey stick in the other, he rapped the blade against his fist. Then, from the back of a sealed envelope on a red cord on the side of the couch, he told Oedipa about his excitement of waking up that night in bed with a dark woman, holding hands and lying on top of her.

The following morning he sent her home, noting that he'd put chocolate on the table in the living room, like a bride. "It was very good." She wrote back:

 Thank you for the chocolates. Does the bookworm already know the rest of the story? I wasn't a bookworm.


Oedipa did not know that it was only when she read that last phrase that she realized what a bookworm she had been. It was a long, tortured night. She slept fitfully, and when she awakened in the morning with a half-drunken headache and a feeling that it wouldn't be good to let the lawyers see the letter in its entirety she sent off for a third opinion. Three hours later, she took a deep breath and told herself that there was nothing to be afraid of, because the letter was bogus. The letter that she had received had been written by a lab technician named Oscar R. DeLeon, after that signed N.F.L., and it had, she knew, been written and signed in the night before. Just one sentence. She stood up in the guest bedroom with a sense of determination that she had to confront Wendell and end this thing. She stared at the mirror for a long moment, opening her mouth in a note of anger, made a hand-seal with the sharp knife, as if the last time she had closed it it would have gone right out. She waved her hand. "I'm so sorry," she said. "What? O.K., stop it." Then she made a reluctant promise to write her aunt in Wisconsin and let her know. She ran out of the house for a night that felt like three. To sleep in the guest room. One night more. Because she knew they would be here at least until daybreak, it did not matter. In her room she called her niece's house, the one in Lowell she'd never been in. There was no answering machine.

By morning, it was already late enough that Oedipa threw herself on the couch, slippers on, and wrapped her sweatshirt around her to keep out the cold. It had been cold this morning, so heavy and snow-browned, and now they were waking up. She switched the watch back and forth between eleven and twelve. Between the cast members of Morning Glory, gone for the season, and Wendell Maas. She