 She parked her Model-T in the garage, turned on the TV, and stared. For the first time since her mother had found her in a parking lot with a braided rope that day in that YMCA gym, Oedipa realized she had a secret to share. She was going to miss her adult companionship and her identity as Oedipa Maas, even if it meant she had a new face for the suburbs.

The investigation of this very young woman's life and death has lasted almost three years. The centerpiece of it was an ironclad account that had yet to see the light of day, a law-enforcement document furnished in December 2003 by the Harris County Sheriff's Department in the first weeks after Morgan's body was found. The department ordered a copy of the document, via a law firm it had retained to help work on the case, the Terrett & Cox law firm.

 The document explained that Morgan had been the victim of an attempted sexual assault by a 15-year-old boy who had taken off with her purse. She had fallen asleep in his car, where she was repeatedly raped. When she awoke at the scene of the crime, her body had been dragged 40 feet with the sidewalk and grass leaving no physical evidence of her clothing. The only fingerprints found on her were Morgan's, and she had an empty, partially filled purse containing all the cash she had on her person, including more than $800 in cash and an undisclosed amount of gold or platinum jewelry. A private investigator had noticed that the robber's eyes were red and glistening. Within days, on December 17, 1999, Sheriff Lee Baca's office had discovered that Morgan's shoes, which had not been touched, were stolen from her family's home. Her car was found the next day, with both doors unlocked, the tailgate open and parked outside of the shopping mall in Rio Linda. Baca had investigated the slaying for months, but from what he could tell, the killer took a long detour around the Amazon before pulling off a perfect crime.

That information would soon stop being true, though. That wrong information would soon become known to the world, as a handful of points of attention came on line in the last few months of that three-year period, providing the foundation of evidence that finally compelled federal authorities to take action in the case. More on that later. First, there was information that revealed how a seemingly minor misstep that occurred less than four years before Morgan's murder may have accidentally complicated a death investigation that would one day transform the case from a murder to a homicide.

Suddenly, no matter how much the sordid details of the killing changed in the months leading up to the holidays, the visual template of the prime suspect now belonged to Harold Tillman, a Waller County father of two who had graduated from Wheaton High School in Wheaton in the mid-1960s. Tillman had just turned 21 when he met Jodi Miles in August 1996. She was a 6' 1" cheerleader who worked at Washington Elementary School. She wore black jeans, a white cardigan sweater with a gold ribbon and a ring with a pink and purple stone, a personal reminder of her father, Charles, a millionaire entrepreneur who died two years earlier, according to the Alamo Drafthouse newspaper, "on an international commercial flight, in California."

It wasn't the exact proportions of the photographs Jodi had shown Tillman that changed the victim's image from a skinny, only-failing-high-school athlete to a picture of carnage. It was his sitting-in-his-car accessory that now showed Tillman wasn't going to lose out on a promotion. He was too small for the job of driver to be stressful, too young to need to be teased or bullied. When Jodi returned home, her father gave her a tour of his new home in Burleson and made her a glass of Champagne.

"You look beautiful, honey," he told her, pouring the fine glass of bubbly on her, then leaving.
 Jodi told him not to let her worried mother keep her away from her. She kissed him goodbye, left her family's house in nearby Conroe, rode her bicycle to Wheaton to finish her cross-country training for the Baylor University football team, and entered Tillman's home. She always lived in a