 to the same conclusion: that her husband, the guy she had chosen for her favorite, had been murdered the previous spring.

Oedipa closed her eyes and tried to wake up. "There was a man." She'd have said it to herself, but she didn't know it yet; she was still, to paraphrase the one usually told about the only lady who rode horseback through Germany in World War II, still getting used to the idea. "My husband," she'd repeat as quickly as possible after one of those mornings when she opened her eyes to something so glum and unfinished in the room, "there was a man."

There was a strange sense of a contest waiting to be won, of not just her husband's death but the ritual to come, and that to win meant, among other things, that she had to close her eyes and play with the light like a child, grinning at something the man had once done. Just after 9:30 she left the theater, walking straight along the block to the water tower in Wildwood. One of the several taxis stopped at her curb. She dismounted, climbed in, laughed when a nice, amiable old lady cut her off in the narrows, and called out a name, and the taxi driver jerked his head around and grinned back at her. "My name's Vivian Way, sir."

We were in the park at twilight and it was dark enough, one would think, as she twisted herself on the grip of her reclining seat, to allow for the possibility of getting in trouble if anybody got anywhere near the sheaf of papers being taken around behind her seat in the back of the taxi, maybe looking at the you-see-this-yourself drawings that had just arrived at Ms. Way's house, well, one would think, though not really. Finally it was easy enough to make out the writing on the still dark carpet, a dark wall of coagulated-serifed handwriting, emanating the good-tempered light of a streetlamp, on one hand, and half obscured by a little pile of letters on the other. On the pile:

D.W.T. 9-5; Bank of California, Bank of America, U.S.A.

P.O. Box 111252

Los Angeles, Ca. 90062-1152


She turned. The dark letters were much more legible than the circle of ink beside them. "No more tricks!" she muttered to herself. "After all, I'm just myself." Her head tilted, probably from the smell of hot garlic.

The letter had a striking coincidence about it, starting in diacritics, then in legalese, and ending in coagulation, creating what seemed a paradox of sorts. And it did not use the proper combination of punctuation and capitalization. "Mr. Way, I had not thought of that," she commented to her husband, Mr. Maas, whom she had just asked to follow her, and whom she was about to hand the sheaf. The dishes were already piled in the sink for what was going to be her third hour of dinner-hour-bathroom time; they were arriving at 10:30, the time set by their hotel, the Beach Chalet (which was no more than a three-minute walk from her apartment, on a terrible street littered with trash-strewn cardboard boxes, revolving have-a-go parking machines, "The Blind Pig" fans that danced themselves to pieces, and urinals hidden in window blinds with a snowman nailed to them.)

He looked at her like she'd just asked him what he thought of the weather, and she was not sure which one she'd said it to; she wished it was the half-naked woman sitting on her window sill. She remembered that remark better than she remembered her letters, which were but more acutely and systematically interrogated and considered by a succession of men with blunts in hand who had, in her mind, ever so slightly wished that she were just somebody else. No sex appeal, she decided. And then, down on her knees, she looked at him, played his name for the first time in her brain, and imagined that her heart was breaking, that she could tell him no, that the heart's pain was the one he understood as a Jew; that the love he felt for her was a yearning as common in their contemporary world as those others. Her body was wearing an uneven, pathetic glow in contrast to her bracing composure; she was nervous, almost excited, to hear herself announce the name of the love she was going to make with him, had she enough power to call it that. Her new name was enough of a soft named for what she was, and what she wanted to be, but if she could reach him, if she could make the sounds of himself, anything he felt for her would sound a soft click-click, click-click. When she finally repeated the name to him he opened his eyes and, after a pause, looked up at her. The air brushed his lips, her hands were around his shoulders, her breath tickled his cheeks. Suddenly he was looking at her almost inaudibly through the crisping sash of the vest he wore; she could see the blue of his eye shadow against the dark green of his eyes, and that was more than he had looked at her as a boyfriend in a former life. But what he was looking at now was her, and that was more than she could've had in her old life.

 How to look at a woman in a suit. How to look at Oedipa Maas. He could see her right away, not as the one who put the pacifier in her mouth as she slept, only as the one who carried the need to lay a down-and-ethereal soft touch. But it was Oedipa, not the other way around. Couldn't she have been Oedipa without the need to play ball? By a healthy thirty Oedipa was not like this; but when she started out on the path she'd known as a woman, into the middle years of her life, the feeling was still there. But now it was nothing to worry about. With more stops and starts than the old road to happy point A, it took her over the same path Oedipa had run so many times before, the one her last husband had walked, handed to her, in the perfect set of twin peaks she felt she had lost and found, to which she returned again and again, in hopes of only keeping it. At home, in a plastered kitchen, Oedipa filled her paper with pages that to any one else would seem hopeless; and besides her version of one famous love letter, she took a pad of what was left of her correspondence with the newspapers; read those, she wrote, this letter was the one that helped me cross that bridge, though I have no idea where it will take me. She kissed the notebook and sat down beside Wendell. He was sobbing. Oedipa tried to look comfortable, in any possible way. Once she'd begun to lay the funeral arrangements in order, the letter had begun to come unglued. She wasn't stupid, and knew that she was, at the bottom of it, a family woman. And so she added, "That, I think, we all know. I feel it when I come home and see you. It's a little raw. But I trust that it will become more raw soon, that you'll see that I am totally lost without you. Why can't it, you say. That will never work, Wendell. We'll have more chance than any couple of people could have before or since to stop people from knowing us, and that will never happen. You've got to believe that. Understand that. It's a bond of life we've got to share." All she got in response was another letter, older this one. From Wendell, word for word but chafing with scorn, and even alliterative for a reason that she would later try to make logical, and it was hopeless to try to parse it without saying to herself the oft-repeated but true words which now begin to haunt her: Not so hopeless, Oedipa. Not so hopeless. She opened the letter and sagged, in good, warm stinging weather, into the thought of the happy wedding with Joshua and Raffi in July. Then she got up, wiping the back of her hand. She shook her head and said, "It's Saturday."<|endoftext|>This project is a new synth, I am not a software developer.

This was based on an old AT99fn called "Hansi" made by Torkam.

Arduino Nano

Arduino IDE v2.0

OpenCV 2.5

Thirdparty libraries

OpenHAB v2.0 by Proteus

Robot Bubble Bash by AugmentedMinds

Tom Arvanitakis http://jonghawa.github.io/ndk_v2/

wipStepper

Spektrum DX8r II using DSMX-100F http://www.simdia-prod.com/dsl/file/6d1f63c9-e56b-42d3-bcfc-2b69ea673f5b/DV_48V28S_DSMX_100_F_e.pdf



Robot<|endoftext|>'We need to live a long time'

When Arvid Jansen, a 68-year-old North Korean defector who wants to live in Canada, is asked what the people of North Korea think of their country, his answer is usually not positive.


"Everyone here seems to think that the North Koreans are very poor people," he said.


As an ethnic Korean, Jansen is not viewed as a refugee but more of a resident of Japan and Canada who wishes to be sent back to a state that "means everything to them".


"I didn't have any problems here before, but now they have so many crimes, so many child-molesting events. So many crimes, that is so unbearable."





This intolerance in North Korea has prompted three governments, including Canada's, to offer people in prison camps amnesty or special powers, but that has not helped that much.


The provinces on North Korea's east coast have been the worst affected, with North Korean restaurants disappearing.


The popularity of North Korean TV shows is a factor in Canadians wanting to go to North Korea.





"We have found many items that people want here, like the mobile phone that has water and audio functions."


But there are still obstacles to be faced for people like Jansen, a Dutch citizen who used to live in North Korea's capital, Pyongyang.


In the absence of a proper visa, he was unable to join the majority of the 400,000 Dutch citizens in that country.


"When I leave here, I am going to be in this camp for the rest of my life.


"No matter how we buy things, or how much money we have, it is impossible."


He has a letter of instruction to use in the United States, which has no visa requirements and few screening checks, but the Dutch Embassy there says that according to their records, there are no United States citizens currently staying in the village on the border.




There is not a sign that Jansen could see while he was in the camp. He stands outside, along the piers, where what used to be a line of goods stretches out, once a year at the center of the village now like a never-ending dance. A Buddhist monk walks by with a newspaper and starts a circular argument with the photos of wedding anniversaries scattered around. Jansen hears someone yelling something in Chinese and turns. The newsreader says in English, "Report. News. Police are here." Jansen explains that he is from North Korea and may just have come for the event.


The police station is in some dilapidated buildings now, and as the police escort him to a room, they say he will be given a lot of money to spend there. Jansen, who is wearing slacks and a simple black shirt with a small lapel badge, looks weary. His arm sticks out, tattered and painfully so, from his shoulder, hooked behind a bloody palm. They straighten up and he gestures to the clean-cut and handsome young men coming in with him. Jansen asks to be taken to a private room, there to wait in some private anonymity. (Their ages vary, but are in the high twenty-fives, young enough for freedom and not so young that Jansen's arm has to be bent straight back.) They sit in a long line to greet them. Jansen's charm is unharmed by the first seconds of seeing strangers, which he manages for himself and the police do for Jansen, and as the bewildered police chief explains that he is all right, it occurs to him that it may be what a lot of foreigners, especially those with history of mental illness, come to Chicago to do. Jansen brushes off a policeman's hand on the arm to return his attention to his conversation with the host, the two groups stand talking for a long while, the man from North Korea sitting back and forth between them. Jansen and the cop get to talking about ideas they'd like to put into a plan. They talk like this, around the stove, on the sidewalk, in the car, in the empty grass and wooded area, Jansen so loose with an air of sex and nothing except happiness, filled with hope, pleading his way toward freedom, redemption, money for a plane ticket to fly him to South Korea. In the long line of strangers, Jansen, waving one tall slender arm like a harbinger, the cop, a Democrat, one of the post-welfare Democrats, seems an anxious next of kin, part stranger to all and yet, just to let Jansen know, part friend. It is Jansen who bends toward the policeman with a quivering hand. In the words of Ed Krupp, he is a collector.



Even at her own funeral, Jansen's psychics were in town. In the days after Oedipa took the stand, Oedipa would be haunted by the still-active claw on the page of her will, the strange moment of loss and utter insignificance when the writer, whose constant thoughts, none of them good, then not as good as they would be as she thought they might become, suddenly experienced even a brief image of herself without the shred of dignity that had hitherto been her trademark. She had no tears, no loud calls of grief, no accusations against the deceased. But, as he is in the other room with Jansen, that's not quite true, either. She has cold, wearyly clear eyes, eyes that demand comfort, eyes that demand tears for something which can't come, even if you put aside all the shame, if you can't let go of the idea that you deserve them. Jansen calls her a Dickensian artist, but that's not quite right either. Jansen is an abstractionist. She can only choose to keep an image or not. He is too human and too young. They are neither one nor the other. They are both, like the night of their wedding, both infinitely ineffable and what you must come to learn is that you can only read your own heart.

One night at a tavern Oedipa had seen Wendell playing a game with the twelve-year-old daughter of the family whom he owned. In fact, they were far from alone in putting the hex on Oedipa. There were one hundred parochial parlour girls who'd come down from Midwestern cities to live out their four days of festivities. They learned, Wendell learned, the hard way, that it's a little too soon for a pretty young girl to get married and then have a baby, if she has one. Wendell had to figure out how to get the housewives of Akron to miss out on the meeting of two of their love interests. "Somehow," he explained, he managed to coax them out of the spartan huts and hostelries of Akron and into the veranda of his Central Park West apartment. But then that didn't work. That had always been no match for the guests who came that night and the thousands of dollars spent at the bookstore where the children of the Promenade Walk's families were trying their luck at the Rockette Age. They had to go to the Catholic Church. That also wasn't a winning strategy. The vicar had left early, having organized a ward dinner for the hundred women; he didn't want to have to spoil it. So they had to come here. Oedipa and Wendell had been here before, at a farm on the farm's south side and had helped themselves to something from the kitchen. ("Guess what," Wendell had said afterward, "that's what I'm talking about, in practice, now, with the nuns." "Honey, you're hurting me here," said Oedipa. "I'm not hurting you at all, ma'am," had been Wendell's advice. "I'm just commenting on the situation.") Besides, one had to hope they had heard about the Promenade Walk, about its girls and the girls' families, and would realize they could always escape, and stay, if they had children. "You know," they said to each other that night, "we haven't yet. Probably won't. I'm not sure how to handle that. I'm just trying to be the good mother." And that would work in the long run; Oedipa and Wendell had a plan, she supposed. "It's just," said Wendell, "you have a lot of responsibility now, Oedipa. We'll see about that one. What about you?" She turned on her heel, marched across the grass and sank her heels firmly into the kryptonite back corner of the barn. She could have been laying out her tarot for the world to see, but her undivided attention was on the pleasure that made an entire day's ride so painful. The barn was shady with foliage, and there was a hot June breeze on the rooftop. In that four-by-four-foot section, near the rear of the building, wedged into the side of a round shed, carved with small bulldog teeth, Oedipa sat for a moment to keep herself from being kicked off, tried not to think about where her life was going. She had to be her own attorney, not just the spokeswoman for the house and its revenues. Whatever happened, she'd have to remain, as Wendell had instructed, part of the family. The idea had been to keep everything under wraps; to blow this thing out of proportion, to draw down all the negative attention on itself. But that had been running out of oxygen, and now she'd come to her senses, and yet there she sat, smiling and bending forward.

But the day after it happened, she and Metzger found themselves negotiating, and fighting, and going back and forth again and again to the letter, sort of looking for straws. There were two major uncertainties. One was: What was to happen to the money that came from the Oedipa Maas trust? A small safe sat in the barn out in the back. A minor fight broke out about the cost of the safe. Oedipa remembered buying the safe with her own money, then followed up with an overdraft on it to keep the pool of money from being depleted. Wistfull, Oedipa, at the last minute had called a lawyer and had been offered two options: pay the inflated amount, or destroy the bank's money machine. ("It's all there, ma'am," the lawyer had insisted.) He'd knocked out the bill. The other question was: What would be done with the 40,000 books, sold from the Maas trust? Could she sell them? She'd given notice to Century Books that she would liquidate the collection, find a buyer, post the proceeds for charity. The lawyer had told her not to. The books were held by the United States Postal Service. It was state secrets, he'd said. She didn't get it. She was worried about the time and legal resources it would take to preserve them. In the past year, a lot had happened. Wendell had died from cancer, and Oedipa had started going back to school for something. She'd had a baby, a boy, in the fall and had been on hand for the birth, serving a restraining order against the woman whom Wendell was married to. She'd sold her home and left town, intending to ride the rails north and get a license as a delivery girl. One of her friends in Little Rock had posted a ad in the paper saying, "On Saturday from 4 to 11 am, free rides to any friend of mine in Hot Springs who needs a lift." After six months of hiding her face from people who knew her, she'd noticed it was the last day of the free ride, but that she and her friends had all been willing to take extra rides if asked, suggesting that this was how the trick was played. In the weeks ahead, the idea of the little red barn amid the deep rows of grain grain had been a consideration. She had wondered if it was time to sell again. That could be done, she reasoned. She and Wendell could make $5,000 for the sale and give most of it away. They could do that. But in the meantime, and knowing that if they couldn't play their old games in Hot Springs they'd go broke somewhere down south, they had been thinking. Now, with the Will gone, they were finally able to play these old games in a way they could all enjoy. And they'd made a schedule and been investigating the income tax implications of it all. They now had money. They had something. With that worry fresh in her mind, at the end of the afternoon the team drove down the road to the Rock Tap, bought as it had been for its local customers. The place was large and bright and wood-paneled and had the tasteless house smell of the outside. Who would have guessed that the beer they drank there was the Midwest's finest? As it was, Wendell looked over his book and grinned at his wife. He had been looking for a place like this on and off for four years, in and out of hiding, and a hotshot like Oedipa had turned up. "He's also looking for a bargain on rope," Oedipa said, calling it off for the night. "I can tell you, as long as he can get it, it's gonna be worth a mint."

Between five and six the second week of March, Pierce settled in with Oedipa. They both had sickle cell anemia, as it turned out. Pierce was then 41, Oedipa was 38; they were the only two purebloods in the family. Oedipa had been a cheerleader, and did fine in workwomen's schools. But at the artsy Duke, she had had a breakdown, and the school had sent her off to the New England Conservatory, where she'd been once again deemed too unstable for such a place. Before long she'd learned that there was no safe home for lowlife freaks.

When they met each other, when the thunderstorm at the beginning of the year had begun to scald and weaken their blue fields, Pierce looked not like his dad's feeble, torpid vitality but the jet of youthful vitality and love and "who and what and where and why" one encounters in the pursuit of adventure. He wanted, above all else, to be alone. He wanted a romantic young partner, something a little too novel, something belonging to him, only him. Like Marty, they both laughed readily, even when they were not in earnest. They talked about their biology, about their sudden desire to do surgery, what sort of plastic surgery they would do, how they'd connect, kiss, even fart together, if they had to. At the farmers' market where they bought their garlic, when they talked about their oranges, one could sense how much they loved each other. They made jokes like how one would rather die and "last the night as is" or "put the world out with a noise." Oedipa laughed then, too, at the idea of dying and letting the world last as is.

Three days before Pierce died, July 1st, 1998, Oedipa arrived at the house of Marthe Eubanks, another college classmate whom Pierce had gone back to for help, when her grasp of the truth were being questioned. She took Marthe into the living room. Pierce was sitting at the back of the room, writing his will. They began to talk. Pierce told Marthe that he felt to him that his father had failed him by not supporting him when he was crippled with polio and in his late teens. That he found him, in his second marriage, boring and her own love of their sons was a source of much concern for him. He said the reason he felt so sorry for his father was because he knew that some day his father would come back from the hospital and take him back, and take her along, while he, himself, would probably be left to rot. Pierce told Marthe that he knew from his conversations with friends in his homeland that it was the responsibility of his mother and his siblings to raise him to have good work habits and to be a good person. Pierce said he did not mean to say anything too negative, he just felt his father had left something to be desired. When they came to some of the details of his childhood, she was listening, looking at him, looking for signs of guilt or sorrow. The conversation went slowly, meaningfully, and then broke off. Pierce told Marthe he wanted to do something he was thinking of doing about his will in order to clear up the matter. He'd talked it over with a few close friends and they'd all said it was right. Marthe agreed to listen to what they had to say. It was a long while before she agreed to what he was saying. After he finished his little poem he said, "One of the big issues in the Will is whether you have to hold something over your head in some event to validate or invalidate the will." That phrase from Odyssey, she thought. "As we'll see," he went on, "we'll have to settle that issue as we go along." About three-quarters of the way through the conversation he mentioned that his agent had called to tell him that the government was trying to get permission to seize some of his money. He said he didn't understand that he had to keep them from seizing it because he and his wife planned to set up an annuity fund. (He said he had thought of that idea but decided he wouldn't want to lose the money. "We'd just lie to them and tell them it's a little something for his friends," he explained.) He continued, "The first thing that came to mind is that we probably ought to take our money out of our retirement savings, all in cash, just to show them that it's all set up, and to convince them they're nuts for trying to take it." "I didn't really want to keep a big chunk of money," Marthe said. "But we have to." She tried to relax, and wearily looked around at the darkened garage. The metal doors had been left open, and there were bits of goop in the floor. "That was last night," she said. "In the morning it was lunchtime." She said that though she'd known it was the weekend before for some time, she'd started cooking that evening. "Now you get to have a nice big supper." "That's right," Wendell said. He looked up. "We could get a big one," Marthe said. "I'm all for a big one." "I don't know," Wendell said. "I really don't know." He said that he had an idea for dinner.

 "We could have a big roll-up?" Marthe suggested. "But don't you want to eat?" "I don't care," he said. "A big roll-up is fine. You want me to stick to a wrap or a wrap with it?" "And there will be salad," Marthe said. "Yes," he said. "That would be ideal." "I don't know," he said. "I'm not sure I can do it." "Well," Marthe said, and went to the basement kitchen to study the last meal Pierce had eaten. "Perhaps if we make a big appetizer," she said. "And then top it off with steak and peas. Pheasant in a basket with a generous pour of gravy. Okay?" "I don't know," he said. "I don't know." He stood up. "O.K., I'll cook." He turned to go. "How about a martini?" he said, and caught sight of his wife putting her hands over her eyes. Marthe gulped. "O.K.," she said, and, getting out her glove compartment, a white Old Fashioned for Marthe, she handed it to her husband. It wasn't much. "I still don't know," he said. "O.K., we'll go drink," Marthe said, shutting the glove compartment, and they went upstairs, to sit down and drink wine at the dining room table. "I'm giving up," she told him. "I've spent two and a half years doing everything possible to make you happy." "Don't say that," he said, picking up his glass. "You deserve to have this." "This will help." She put her glass back on the table. He sat, tired, sipping, wiping his mouth with the back of his hand. She waited. He finally picked up the wine, took a long sip, and wiped his mouth with it. "You can't," he said. "What have you done to me?" "I've never said that before." "What?" "You were a fine husband." He sat across the table from her, eating her wine. It was clear that what he said was hardly something worth saying. And it couldn't have been an empty, innocent husband's hand on hers as he spoke. It had to be something more, something, anything, that he had denied her, driven her to try to kill herself. In the middle of the summer, by sheer force of circumstances that had to be nothing but catastrophic, that neither she nor anyone else had come up with a cure for. She wished she could tell him what she thought he wanted to hear; instead she told him that she was happy for him, that she'd accepted all he'd asked of her; that he should come up with something else. She worried about their marriage and then she thought of the term for "repugnant" people: "untrusted." She wondered if Wendell was one of them.

No matter how much she tried to withdraw herself from something that occupied her mind, she could not—she could not escape—unto what she was. In the beginning of summer she had been imagining what the party of all parties would be like if it were held in Wyoming: the noise, the heat, the party fat–hued, the ponies and the gas, the weird personalities, the mugs and the brown sugar and the cucumbers and the punch. Was it funny to believe that Wendell could make her smile at parties? Suddenly she stopped thinking. The day before she had had to come in at ten at night because all the guests had been in his room—though not one of the sixteen handsome bachelor goers was in a hurry. She was sitting in the reception-room room, a small mausoleum outfitted with a colonial-style octagonal fireplace, staring at the holophrase of "The Nightingale" played on the phonograph, feeling very short in her clothes, shoes, and in her hair—very short, even more short now, here in this chair, still—trying to think of what to do. Somewhere there was no cornbread. She didn't know what cornbread had to do with anything. But she had heard one of those speaking magazines again, and the writer couldn't wait for the Nobel, which would be the one he'd won for being the best writer on the subject of how to write the best book, and would throw a party and make up a trilogy on it, and then she would have a collection. But when would that happen? Her voice was wet and funny, hoarse and sudden, and so she asked herself: Was she writing a novel? (Only this, she figured, wasn't her real name.) And then there was the lady with the bald head in the living room, smoking, spilling not her tobacco but the cigar ash into her lap. This lady had been at the other night to get some kosher crumbled rye, and the sparkle of his ears, the way he was scrunching into the ham during the fish barmen's shabbos night—He had something he didn't want her to see, he told her, and she felt his head lay on her lap, see his forehead under the lace. She couldn't see it, the ash rising there. And that was why they were sitting in the living room, watching the mute gray burn on the black radio in the corner, and the band the Hatchet Root. The Hattiesburg Topolino, A.C. Hollingworth, piano; Pappy Harrell, flugelhorn, organ; Chester Aiken, soprano saxophone, right. With a chorus of country sounding young people under his direction, chorus singing the West African kamba verses "Tua Ih", "Na-na" and, in a tone which reminded her of the cajones of something up in Lake Minnehaha, "I'a
 kinna put no powwow on ya'ay"; then he went out to play "Holler on with y'a" on a harmonica and, with a waggle, showed off his slide on the organ like the anvil, one of those swingy junkers who jump out of the junkyard one morning and cork the hards—new furniture made from broken cars; broad jumps so deep the ground turns. "The hoopla o' this show is dreadful," the lady said. "They let up on it too quick, Oedipa. Remember?" She thought for a moment. His picture was still on the wall; he'd passed the time by telling a big story about the time he missed a flight and was given seats on a plane taking a three-hundred-kilometer round trip. But for him, this was a mere intermission. "I'd say the news is appalling," she told Oedipa. "But it's harmless. Not until June." Maybe. The Hattiesburg fan called, went to talk to somebody who ran the news desk. When she got there, she looked at the paper and noticed: "On July 5th, following his passing, following the inquest into the death of Mr. Inverarity..." "I'm going to be busy," Oedipa said. "Just busy." She asked to see the envelope and—the plaintive tone of the plaintive nature of the father of Oedipa O'Hara made her question whether it really was a declaration of great news—"Dear Jane," the note said, a list of who it had been addressed to, beginning with name, then date, then a call to someone's mobile. The first name was Thomas G. Moyer, or So-Goo; the second was Ann O'Hara, or O. Maas. Oedipa had given her O. in the native Middletown, but hadn't meant to shock the reader. (Actually she had, a little, remembering that she had invited her husband for dinner the night of the notarized letter's transmission from the law firm, six weeks earlier. In retrospect she said, It must have been him, the fifty-seven-year-old son of Mr. Warpe, the mild-mannered son of an editor at the Middletown Journal, who had got the story from her on the spur of the moment—his fifth job in two years. "But I'll pay you," Oedipa promised him, the fourth time he had been forced to pay her out of the meager balance of her many offices. When Oedipa got home the next morning, she set off on foot to the bank, counted out seventy-five dollars, and gave it to her father in person, to be included in her commission for the car she was getting, and the used overcoat she had bought that morning. Oedipa came to her kitchen table, smiled sympathetically and poured the seventy-five dollars into her tweed purse. "My," she thought, "this is going to be a boring day." Her father had been reading the paper the day before, trying to suppress a yawn, when he had heard Oedipa's voice at the phone. "You okay?" he said in his grave, low voice. "I'm thinking of giving up on life," she said, still smiling, as though it was funny, and her smile got a little wider. "You're gonna have to think of some new idea, brother, and come back here later, at four." "Oh, that's a no," his voice said, like he had figured it out a long time ago, and she said, "Well, call me back." Over the phone, he looked somewhat quizzical. "Why? I'm positive I'm going to be more than happy with whatever comes next." He left a little lighted candle on his coffee table. It made a lovely impression in the dark, and Oedipa had sat there, watching it, the whole time, until it burned out. She told herself at least she'd given him at least one little spark of hope, something to point him toward. "One other thing," she said. "We need to bring some house slippers. And a pair of slippers to go down to Mar-ay."

The rug in her living room was the most prominent of the seven-meters that had somehow been secretly handed over to her, in exchange for her assuming her inheritance in full. The rest of it had been acquired first by Wendell, Wendell: a medium-length study, velvet-lined, gilt-bordered, with two gold chandeliers, blue Louis Vuitton socks, a huge oil painting of the place. For Oedipa, this very choice was of greater interest. When she bought her husband's estate at the beginning of her career, she was his equal in all but name. He had been so much bigger than her at that point in his life that he had actually said he wanted a retirement place like this. They'd bought a tropical house with two pools, his own near a lagoon and hers off to the side, so that there was a little closer, down below. It was a house they'd picked out for themselves. She was the first of their six children. It was one of the rare postwar boom families, at first reading, that settled into a Hollywood house and made that happen.
 She was one of the first born, so she had a leg up on her competitors, but at that point she wasn't quite the husband she was then, and after her husband's stroke, two other women got in on the action. She'd never seen those other women, and still doesn't. She talked to him a little in the living room, hand-painted star-spangled initials all over the door and a portrait of him. "I wish you'd stay in Los Angeles," she'd always think. "It was your idea to have that house here, though. I just figured I was helping you out." On her wedding day in 1948, she'd begged the Countess of Safford to cut it in half, so she could get a closer look. His figure was his subject. The howling singers had sounded like music to him, their wild eyes and rough hands and steel-spiked steel teeth. Or was it their foreign eyes? She looked at the volume of his songs and wondered at the disparity in size, the immensity of his domestic. Those stories with the stars? Wasn't that an aura of her, now that she remembered him, that had driven him? As, by tradition, the Countess ruled her boy's childhood and young marriage? He had lived all his life in (and afterward abroad) all the former Spanish colonies. So he had had pretty much all the adventure, of all the place where one knew you were dreaming. In Spanish California that's how, the titles his friends called them (Pistoleros, Rocky Road, Villa Victoria); he'd been never to Asia, never to the French Congo, had never been to India, hadn't ever set foot in Peru. He'd been in a hundred countries and still no passion. And the fondue. When he started going to see Casa Oedipa Maas, she had wanted to banish it from the garden, to keep it behind locked doors and a bolt-sparrow for his table. By then he was nineteen and stood twenty-four, she supposed, and he was growing at once tall, thin, soft-flowered. And hot. She imagined him at Folsom or Sherman or Hoover or the Great Lakes coast, and thought, 'How hot can I make him?''' they'd come on days when his trademark blond were sometimes a handsome creamy tan, another spoke of the dye in his hair. The public buildings had warmed up with him, by then barely seventeen himself, since he had first entered politics, launched with the black ribbon, the fleece jacket for Covert Action, but unlike most girls, she felt they still belonged to him. His house was called Fourteen Holes, and although this was a place for clandestine break-ins of state records and prison records and such, it did have a side that helped him sleep at night. The school his sisters and his mother took the summers was the Last Chance Lane, to teach what Mrs. Oedipa put down in the letter was in its original fifty-one words: "There was no next step, no direction, no reason and no one could accept or understand what I was, or why I continued to be." It read, She was sick of the feminine, sick of the sentimentality. One night, out in her brownwood log cabin by Mackinac in the dead winter, she gave a speech about how it was just fine to be a ditz, and his three older sisters shut up. Most nights when he came home from work, his youngest sister, the oldest, would sit at the table with him, she later told the state attorney's office, and play hide-and-seek with him while he tried to act out various scenes from the movie War of the Worlds, thinking, To one, to another, I am afraid, to some; oh, how far I must go. Oh, man, the world is out of control, she'd then tell the authorities. That night Oedipa never spoke to her, and the next morning she found a letter from his mother, opening it she found herself looking at a typed page, the elegant letters of her daughter missing, replaced by the guttural language of her son. That night, after calling the dispatch office, while her husband just sat on the couch in the kitchen, watching TV, she heard that the red Chevrolet car he was driving had been stolen and destroyed by a crazed woman in a mall parking lot. Hours later, as Oedipa tended her farm in the dead winter, an unusually icy evening in northern Michigan, she went into the living room and crawled into her husband's lap, to breathe the same muffled, needy breaths, with a restlessness in her arms.

 She lay there, refusing to leave him and his arms, a barely-heard hunger in her heart, as she tried to recall whether she'd had any one of those surreal dreams in her life at all. They were so clearly the actual events of her life: the driveway, the driveway they'd driven through, the purse and the wallet, the way all three of them walked toward the townhouse, the steps into the place. But now they were increasingly different, a strange decoupling, a plug-and-play separation, a closing of a shared old way of understanding themselves and each other. Oedipa got up and went to the bedroom door to look out; it was locked. And there she saw that she'd only just began to open the door when the front door, with its heavy duty green lock, snapped open, slapped against the wall in front of the bedroom door. The suitcase had already come flying out of the suitcase slot and had crashed through the wall. Had she only given it a look or a touch? For a moment she didn't know whether to laugh or cry, but the whole thing made her laugh, out loud, to the bottom of her throat. In the fridge, inside the drawer in her nightstand, lay the remains of Pierce Inverarity's favorite drink, toasted in a brown glass, bottles of which were still half empty. Her husband was in the bed, but the room was clean and sound. The mirror was splattered with glass, splattered with red wine. Oedipa closed the door. Her husband lay there. She reached out to grasp his right hand, because his left hand was half frozen and it made her very nervous that it would fall, but it was still there, only more numb.

She came into the kitchen, and he greeted her with one of those frowns that seemed to be a part of the man, but he saw her coming and smiled, his face flashing words from memories. "I said, 'Get up, for God's sake.' 'Sarge, we'd better call the plumbers,'" said Oedipa, hushing him. "He said, 'It's all right, Mrs. Maas. They're going to fix it. Just sit down a minute and eat this.'" He pulled back the battered brown bag that had arrived at them last year, had been branded, which he'd put there to make it look in good taste, "Our last bottle of … Beaujolais, Mrs. Maas?" The label was gone. But one of the last bottles of beer had been taped inside the bottom, with its still heaving corks, because it was too far gone to pack and air, to just put it in the refrigerator or even try to reseal it. "The bottle that's the top and the bottom is an entirely different mess," said Oedipa. "There's a lot of poured out and a lot of leaking out." "This could have been handled better," said the man, his mouth as firm and deep as if he were practicing for a boxing match. "I was handling the bottle in the house, didn't I? I'm an extra key person here. There were three different bottles, but a hole in the middle of the cork between the bottom and the top. My wife had to pull it back up to throw it away. Why didn't you know it was there? You're the heir. Why don't you go to the plumbers?" "Well, uh, I asked, 'Did you think we might get gas?' But you know, my wife knows how to keep the gas on and things like that." "No," he said. "I'm not listening to you. We're having a … a party. A very small party. We will have the wine as an extra. You go with a team. A team of people. Just like you and Mrs. Phelps. Anybody. You're the famous heirs of the Hoffman and Phelps companies, of course. You have clout. You'd never be able to get a top-tier cleaning lady on less than two hundred fifty thousand dollars a year, but I've got something like $200,000 and I'm having that taken away from me. And my wife's a real mess." "You got that with my bottle, I guess," said Oedipa. "I don't have my key, and my man told me not to call you. So I'm not going to call you, either, though I may speak to you. She has been telling me, lately. 'Maybe you have to pay him and his workers some money out of your own pocket, like money for your truck,' " she said. "Well, that sounds bad, doesn't it?" "It's a bad business, Oedipa, a bad business. Why don't you go out and find a flat – " "Oh, for Christ's sake, I'm not going out and find some flat," she interrupted. "I am not, a flat! I am going to the Red Lion. At least, that's what it is. You'll understand when you come in." The go-fer left, and Mrs. Maas moved forward into the living room, pushed her husband's bluebottle toward her, and, holding it up to her face, said, "Well, Mr. Phelps … and so Mrs. Phelps. Can you two sit down and tell me, this is your first move on this?" Oedipa gathered up the keys from the sill. "I'll tell you that last thing after I pull this on over my head," she said. "I think you've got to do what you're doing. Right now." He inclined his head, gave her his service key, and nodded his head, before saying, "I know a little about doing this sort of thing. You, me, Mrs. Metzger … I'm still trying to figure it out. Oh, I'm not going to leave until we've got it all down. I haven't sat down to write all this. I've had it so many times it's already got off its bed, and the leaf is falling off, the weeds have torn it out from the earth, and I'm moving it and I'm struggling with it and the water just won't stop coming and if I give up this kind of thing it'll come right back on again. Not by a long shot. Do you understand me?" "Yes, I understand you." "I just don't want to sit here with my knees pulled up up, back turned toward the door, listening to you sing 'It's Gonna Be Alright,' the song you sang at our wedding, which one of my daughters likes, or one of the boys. I don't even want to hear about the old days."

In the living room, the two women took their seats, Mrs. Metzger took her place at the piano and played down-beats over and over again, tapped with her foot on the chords in memory of the guitar, with the weight of her shoulders on her knees as she started tapping once again, then stopped. The atmosphere between them was electric. They talked about old couples, celebrities, old days, Pearl Jam and the audience, teasing, joking, just smiling, which seemed just right. Oedipa looked around at the carpet and dark green trellises, her husband — a man she thought might have been her father, a new admirer, whom she should have married, her hope — her children, married in two places, who were very friendly, and herself, and then went on playing. Then a boom, a louder boom from the window. Someone had gone upstairs.

"Watch it," Mrs. Metzger said.

In the kitchen, after they'd finished dinner and she'd had to clean up a cardboard box in the hall, Mrs. Maas picked up a brown envelope and stared at it intently, then threw the paper down on the counter, in a smooth motion, the album canister held from the album still floating in it. It was inside the box which contained the files, except for those of the two dozen or so photographs.

"Those are good," she said.

Mrs. Metzger carried the brown envelope into the living room and stared at it for a moment, then put it on her table. Mrs. Maas followed her to the piano and started playing "Is This the Way It Is" by the Whigs, that weird little song Oedipa once once forgot the tune to, and which in this same house had now grown to be one of the seven great songs of her daughter's childhood. Metzger pushed the plates of corn on the grill into the coals and took up a throwing knife. She'd sent an assistant to buy five hundred pounds of kitchen knives for Mrs. Maas; each knife would do it for her for about a year. Mrs. Metzger picked up her nails and walked out to her door. Oedipa followed. When Mrs. Maas left, she slid the brown envelope onto the coffee table and leaned over it to open it. She was just about to pull back the chipboard cover when Mrs. Metzger slammed the door behind her.

"I never noticed that the title page ends with a full stop," she said, turning back to the piano and slowly walking to her door. Oedipa followed her. She decided that she would drive up to his house, now that she'd finally sorted out her matter of fact feelings about his will, and say goodbye. She drove east on a bad day and east for another twenty minutes. There was no pickup out of Estes Park.

They drove the length of the highway, circled back around to Exeter and then through the schools until they reached the narrow, wooded parking lot on the north side of Route 53, where Oedipa found an unassuming house on a corner. They pulled into the driveway of the modest, white, slightly ragged Colonial, the long, jagged orange sink of a fountain in the yard humming close to full. They pulled up next to the front door and waited for Mrs. Maas, all four of them, the two young men, her son, the boy on the porch, and Mrs. Maas herself. Oedipa read the collection of handmade cards on the front porch. There were traditional statements of intent, promises of what was going to happen, an offhand suggestion of what had just happened, then more rambling ones about big things in the future. One read, "Are you talking about chopping off my huge hands?" another, "I need to make a presentation at work, please don't go." A third: "My husband had some colon cancer and it got into his muscles. Can I get that removed?" But then came the night before. "The night we were supposed to go to the St. Elmoes Country Club," Mrs. Maas had said. "It was for my friend and she would be driving us back. We were supposed to go and kill Pierce. But you know, something went wrong. She wasn't supposed to leave her car unattended with her keys in it, and he wasn't supposed to drive the same car she did." They'd gone to the Mets. "He didn't really understand the rules of the game, or how the city worked. He turned us on and off the seat belt. It took us forty minutes." No, it was they didn't know the rules of the game, the whole Umpire's Code. "He's half normal," said Oedipa. "He likes to go by himself. I suppose he just couldn't get past it." After the game, Oedipa was waiting at the red light on his way back from the gates, but there was nobody in the car. Not in the taxi. Not in the taxi behind him. Oedipa ran into the parking lot of the Minnehaha Motel, where he began to walk, alone, toward the house. He stumbled into the woods and began to cry. He walked back home. Her lover had died of a heart attack. The black guitar stretched its lengths on the sofa. Mrs. Maas took a call. When she came in the next day, she found Oedipa, with glasses and wide lipped, drinking several beverages at once. At last she wrote him a letter about how she was having none of his caviar, then handed it to him. And then she forgot it.

Oedipa leaned back in his chair in the family living room. He had very long lashes, that tied in loose curls around his eyes and stuck down inside his tight ears. Those lashes, once he'd moved with his grandfather from our native Kansas to Vermillion, N.Y., had never really gotten tied in properly, and he wondered, What had his grandmother used to do? It had taken the following summer for the remaining twelve of Oedipa's fingers, in the course of remodeling the master bedroom, to grow in precisely the right number of little loop-screws so she could reach down and pinch his armpit whenever she was eager to switch gears. He liked that moment when she went to sleep. "It's so weird," she said, staring up at him, her hand as though on the scales of a balance scales suspended between Heaven and Hell, "You always get to them at the right time." Then, thinking about his grandmother: "She used to be pretty damn clever."

Some nights he had slipped out of bed at 8 A.M. and found a look of desperate avarice on his wife's face. Such even-handedness would have made the dark pages of King Lear blush in a vein of rouge, like our absolute ruler, Pyramus the Good, becoming perhaps the most wicked puppet-master of all. At other times, all last spring, there had been a soliloquy of a valedictorian when it came to formulating the prescription for life: "There are days when it's not necessary. There are days when happiness is more valuable than money. There are days when the meaning of life is knowing that you deserve happiness more than anything else." You can guess, though, that it took an idiotic lot of really, really awful days in life—along with his list of responsibilities and responsibilities, a world of petty negotiations he never sat down to negotiate with, occasional battles with an overhead wire which stood between him and the bathroom sink—before he did come to agree with that grand youth's ever-worsening self-assessment. And Oedipa Maas found this a little bit difficult, this being itself a day when she was mostly no longer Maud Maas but Oedipa Maas, the months in which (as her right-hand woman so wistfully put it to the secretary of the California Supreme Court) "you got to have some fun out of this." And when she stood up on a hot afternoon in her purple power suit, looking out of the glasses and silk umbrella at the blue waves that flowed into the ocean, she felt as much as ever that life at home with the family wasn't quite what it ought to be.


A list of her obligations, ordered in chronological order, from here on up the sentences, seemed to be following the path that her chief psychiatrist had laid down for her when she came into the office with her interview: A few more bad days, and you'll start to feel like an encumbrance; take enough bad days and you'll need counseling to come out of it, too. But those days were becoming fewer, leaving more of a good thing in their place. The change was difficult to believe. "Yes," she answered in the first-person mode of her habitual speech as she and her parents drove around the park of her boyhood home on Maui, things were not, as her mom had told her before, growing dull for her. She saw mountains again. Rainbows bloomed. "Heaven. I've been to heaven before, you know. It's the nub of every conversation with Maud. It's the first thing that comes up. I remember being with Maud in her church in San Francisco and thinking, Oedipa, we're doing the works of the Holy Ghost. I wasn't sure whether the scripture meant something else. But Maud had brought home many wonderful parables: she'd give an oil painting of a climber in the Arno, with angels by the hundred and us in the background, doing handstands in the air in autumn. Maud had talked of soulmates and gossip, something with the French. But the best reason I had for coming to Christ and to Him alone was the existential meaning of the gospel. I remember, like right then and there, not being able to explain my position to the Maas family, one of whom came to us in New York that spring and left a months later; but on the subject of the second coming, my mother said, Oedipa, after the arrival of the last Holy Ghost-bearer, how could anyone deny their own salvation, their own understanding of what a mystic is and is not? Oedipa sat with her for a few minutes, made faces at me to keep me from praying; and went into Maud's house and sat in her bed, for a long while, closed my eyes and couldn't see the worlds around me, didn't have anything to say; and then I fell asleep.

And in the morning Maud asked me what had happened. She told me it was not the first time I'd thought of calling but, damn, I'd thought of that some time before, I said. All I really remembered was the time after the first baptism, when I'd left Oedipa, believed in my own dying self, come to the conclusion that anything could be true because everything had happened before. We'd managed to weather that storm, survived, but she'd gotten real upset and said something in reproachful and distant tones about a principle that I had to accept was of death; because "we" had the power to transcend. So Maud told me to go find him and tell him about the nagging. Oedipa hadn't mentioned it to her family, and it was M