 She parked her Model-T in the garage, turned on the TV, and stared. For the first time since her mother had found her in a parking lot with a braided rope that day in that YMCA gym, Oedipa realized she had a secret to share. She was going to miss her adult companionship and her identity as Oedipa Maas, even if it meant she had a new face for the suburbs.

The investigation of this very young woman's life and death has lasted almost three years. The centerpiece of it was an ironclad account that had yet to see the light of day, a law-enforcement document furnished in December 2003 by the Harris County Sheriff's Department in the first weeks after Morgan's body was found. The department ordered a copy of the document, via a law firm it had retained to help work on the case, the Terrett & Cox law firm.

The document claimed that Morgan had been the victim of an extensive and professional scam, and that Oedipa Maas was the killer. With the aid of Terrett & Cox, the Sheriff's Department created a computerized profile of Morgan, one which had been downloaded and available on its Web site for two years and was updated daily. Oedipa Maas's first instinct was to ignore the profile as a tool for killing, but, then, now she had a daughter of her own to worry about. If the Detective Branch believed her, Oedipa would have at least one more means of covering her tracks. Still, Oedipa never would have gone forward with the witness protection program had she known she could be forced to turn in her daughter's killer.

When the story broke, Oedipa was in the final stages of giving birth to her daughter, Lillian Dillard, a girl she would raise herself with her husband. Morgan's lawyers, meanwhile, were turning over new strands of evidence, new leads they were piecing together. By February, the detective branch sent an update to Terrett & Cox saying it was pressing ahead with its investigation and that it was prepared to interview any witness who might have anything to add.

"She was very focused on her daughter," says Terrett & Cox partner Rob Terrell. "Lillian was really, honestly, she thought she was doing the right thing by Oedipa, she believed she would have an adequate life with her. She had to believe that." The firm focused on Oedipa's bedroom at her two-story house in Seguin, the place she would have called home for the next thirteen years. Terrell and the Caring Law Firm started work at 7 a.m., scribbling in notebooks, devouring newspaper and magazine articles, taking photographs, translating articles in French and Spanish, trying to develop a picture of Morgan. At nine, Oedipa returned to work. By 12, Terrell had written an outline and a background for her daughter and started showing her around. A day after Morgan's body was discovered, Terrell drove her to work at the newly built site of the Historical Resources Building. It had been years since Terrell had been permitted to be a part of the preservation program, but, he reasoned, Oedipa would be pleased to have a job in this new initiative, as would her mother, who was to benefit if the property was cleaned up. She drove her daughter down from Seguin for the first time, over three hours away, through a long, one-lane freeway, to arrive at the Texas museum complex. The work got started, in the archives. The archives employee who led Terrell down those halls told him about all the clues, all the facts, about her mother's past and the meticulous way she had carried herself in the archives. What Oedipa saw impressed the young lawyer and took her over the edge, for