 in roughly the same direction.

When Oedipa got home she cried, didn't know how much, for many long minutes, and then came up with that often enough, two people's wanton moments being too much. Wendell lay across the back seat of her car and was sitting up when she arrived home. She started holding him more carefully, so as not to bump his head on the window, and almost drifted off until she could think of little else. "In other words, I won't remember my husband's name, Wendell," she told herself.

 "Or maybe it won't be him, and I'll know who died." She opened her window and sat down with her arms on the steering wheel and turned the key. "I won't be able to take it, won't be able to get there."

She lost two hours, wasn't able to drive. She was sad. And maybe this wasn't the time to get angry. Oedipa had something of a position of privilege; she had just come through a dozen solid months with the murder of one man and a whole quarter of a century of acquaintance with that same man, when the only memory she could derive was of his unholy ghost that seemed to hide away as often as it was borne up to meet it. Was that at all real, her itchy sense that somebody was out there who wasn't quite supposed to be there, trailing slowly across the sun-kissed fields of lowlands and behind the straight and narrow lanes of what appeared to be an English village?

What happened in the fall of 1966 and early 1967 wasn't the best of times, but if she had to go by only the state's case and two sworn affidavits, it was bad, she thought, with things festering under her. I think it's worse here than when I came here, she said herself, and then shifted her viewpoint; people are really bad here, people are all over the map, and yet she sees them all the same.
 It could have all been better, she thought. "He was even worse than he was before," she thought, "and I'm the mother of his child." I really wish that he were here, she said, and felt a rumbling in her, remembering and disbelieving this last sentence, old hat.

By the time she finished cooking breakfast the next morning, she felt a familiar course of fatigue (she knew this feeling, had felt it before and gone through it) but not quite because of anything she'd done. It was the same stuff of the weeks gone by. By three o'clock in the afternoon she was feverishly studying the latest installment in the The Winnipeg Free Press and wondering, if she was going to have another baby, what time they were going to have the baby. Later, after Wendell had gone to bed, and she had fallen into a restless, frenzied sleep, it became clear that those thoughts had been heading away from the child, toward her father. Her husband was supposed to come out and hug her one more time. And something strange happened: no hug.


Part 1

Fifteen-thirty on that sunny October day in the early nineteen-seventies in Lake of the Woods, an hour's drive from Indiana, was a normal day. It was a typical county-issue late afternoon: a burst of snow, mostly covering the ground at eight or nine o'clock; an overweight man riding a first-class brown ticket train, in cotton dress and gold plate badge, who was carrying a sapphire metallic briefcase into St. Martinville, Oklahoma City; he stood before the crescent-shaped office of the Mulberry County Auditor; one of those large stainless steel doors opened and a ruggedly handsome man walked out in his tan, easy-looking suit, without his outer appearance a warning sign to any observer. The man was Wendell Sams, chief of police of Mulberry County, and his name was Earl Sams.

Earl Sams had been a cop for nineteen years. He'd been born on this farm in 1917 and made it into adulthood with farm-yard kinbaku and wide experience of the milieu of farmers' wives, country festivals, "cutesy songs and melodies and songs of the land," hunting a pig in a Louisiana cotton field, a hiker frolicking with a deer in the Ozark hills, living in two houses together, raising and maintaining eighty-seven kids, three cars, two planes, and a private railroad and a utility truck. ("It wasn't very good farming and it wasn't very good trucking, but it was only ten miles from downtown Atlanta," Earl Sams had once said.) Then there was the acreage; old-school equipment, all sorts of "pedestrian carts," tailgates and fountains of soft drinks, canned goods, canned food, that dreaded kimchi corn.

When Earl Sams came along, the town was failing slowly. the factory and mill district around St. Martinville had been neglected, falling on hard times after the corn companies had shut their doors. It had two hospitals and a sheriff's office, but the infant would have to wait, it would have to wait. Nobody wanted to move into the county to take advantage of the increased area that Sams had planned to buy with the money he had just received in his current job. The road was lined with ranch houses and pulled up to many of them by the local back roads, where in the summer, with the grass growing deep and fast, they could have gravel runways that stretched over miles of dirt. There were a couple of old county airfields which now had strip lights and power lines just to the north. The county used to have a train depot in the 1920s, but the local farmer's crew did not like to travel from Kansas City to Hickman or Chapel Hill and start their shift, so in order to stay in business, the depot had been razed, leaving nothing but a fence and a ditto house.

Just to the north, at the junction of Alliford and Riley roads, was the closed Mulberry Atomic Weapons Facility. The scrap metal here was worth very little, but people would go to the waste pits when there was a real emergency, when the roads had been paved over, when there was a crack in the road, or when they wanted to collect one of their valuables. Weathered and rusted metal, remnants of what once had been a government structure built in World War II, stood between the fields, the leftovers of many a brilliant scientific discovery, cut up with edge razors and weed whackers and turned up as waste. But nowhere was there any scrap metal and very little scrap metal because as the money from the uranium mines dried up, the City of Hickman, still in control of the plant, had closed it down. But the silo workers did not seem to notice the change of scene: there was nothing new around.

Earl Sams came to Lake of the Woods in 1980. At that time the county had an economic crisis. When the mines were closed down, there were not enough jobs for all the men who had been working in those mines and making bombs. It was a desperate situation. The county was broke and empty. The state had its own problems. The federal government had made up its mind about Little Rock, Arkansas; the federal government had pledged to stop sending any more money to the county because they had not paid it back, and because they didn't know how much money they still owed. And yet, somehow, the central government, the government of the whole country, had not been called to account for its worst denial of obligations and the injustice it inflicted on hundreds of thousands of poor working people and their families.

 When the Sams family heard that their father was retiring and his last bank account was empty, and that no new start had been made for him anywhere in the country, at that time, there were only four states with any population north of thirty thousand: Georgia, Texas, Alabama and Mississippi. That was what Sams was told when he went to Mulberry to talk about his late father. Not one of the Alabama officials, sheriffs, public welfare officials or state legislators, was asked what they were going to do about the problem of a broken down county. To these people, it was the long winter ahead.

A manager named Carl Putnam arrived and said he would talk to the Sams family. He stood in the snow by the edge of the park and watched the players approach the park. Mr. Putnam wore jeans and a white shirt. He was a big old man with a white beard and mustache and the friendly look of the cattlemen. He stood there, and like Sams's agent and agent friend, he went up to his father, who was riding his Harley, and whispered into his ear. His father wasn't home.

"What did you tell him?" Mr. Putnam asked the Sams family.

"He said that a lot of people are living on poverty wages. I told him you were just up there collecting your strike pensions, and he said the same thing. He said maybe we should work with Mr. Sams, see if we can buy you back."

"We tried that. That did not work out."

"I'll tell you what we'll try. He said we should go around to the officers, to the sheriffs, the professors. We should explain to them that it is not right that you make so little and get so much, and that you need to be paid in the same way as the others. I don't know what they would say to us. I'm not an economist."

Mr. Putnam got off the Harley, went over to where Mr. Sams's father was sitting on his horse and stood over him. He spoke into Mr. Sams's ear for about five minutes. Mr. Sams stood there and watched the other men move off, with no answer, no request for help, no acceptance of his last contract or any kind of restitution. Mr. Putnam still stood over his father, across the road from the fence, silently listening to what was going on in that part of the country.

Mr. Sams's family was still living on the mountains where the park had been built. His family was still a little dusty, and they seemed to recognize that they were living in a neglected area. They were still wearing their clothes, and they were just coming out of a winter of not having enough to eat, and they made the same kind of statement about it, saying, "It's not right."

When Earl Sams returned to Lake of the Woods, he stopped by the arboretum that he had never been to before, on a Saturday morning in 1981. He had been staying with his wife, a little twenty-five year-old woman he was divorcing, and their two children, who were five and six years old. Earl Sams went to the arboretum because he knew that his daughter thought her dad had run off. That afternoon he went into the arboretum to talk to his daughter. He asked her where her father was. "He's dead," she told him. "In Vietnam." He said, "Where is he?" "Vietnam." "Did he tell you what happened to him?" "No." She thought that he must have told her, but she didn't ask him any questions. "He told me that he was drafted into the army and he was killed in Vietnam." He got out of his car and walked back to the house. He met her for coffee. They talked.

"What happened to him?" he asked her.

"He was an Army man," she said. She told him that his dad had been killed and killed.

"What did he do?" he asked her. "He worked with the Nixon campaign. I'm sure he was better paid than you. He was a Democrat, like me. Where is he?"

"He's dead."

"Did he tell you what happened to him?"

She shook her head. "No." She talked about her dreams, about the death of her father's favorite book, about her inability to handle the death of a father who was much older than she was. He talked about his dreams, about his work in Vietnam, about the kinds of men he met who had come home, with the effects of war, and how they lived their lives. He talked about the ways he saw the Vietnam War playing out through his own eyes. He talked about his great respect for George B. McClellan, the Civil War general who led the Union Army, and McClellan's strategy of attacking the Confederate capital of Richmond.

"How is it I never knew your father?" he asked her.

She said she thought it was because he was a soldier, and because he was a white man who did not belong in a forest.

"There is something about me," he said to her. "I am different. And I don't know why. I feel like I should know you. How can I ask you questions about my dead father? I'm sorry. What can I do to help you? My wife is dead. The kids are gone. What can I do?"

He began to cry. His wife was away, leaving him with the children, and they were concerned about him. He'd been doing much better. "How can I get back his memory?" he asked her.

"What is going on? What did I say that would make him want to go back and go through the things that he did in Vietnam? We can talk about that. We can talk about people I have met, and how they lived, and how they are struggling, and I can tell you why we are doing this." She drove him back to the house, and then they returned to the coffee shop, where they talked and had more coffee, and they talked some more.

A year passed. Earl Sams gave up his job at the sheriff's office and moved into an apartment downtown with his wife. The wife wasn't doing well, and the children were unhappy, but it wasn't too bad. They were in a new environment, and they felt better. He still believed in what had happened to his father, but his job was over, and the drug trade was hurting his family more than the war was. The family started making the repairs to the home, even though it was old and very dilapidated. In this new place, the family stayed in a small three bedroom apartment, as much as they could fit. The Sams' sister would take the kids to work every day and sometimes have to babysit the two children from work, the little girl who was always so good at everything.
 It was very difficult for the family, but the circumstances were as they were. The kids and their little sister went to their grandma's for a time, and then to see their grandfather, in the month he was out of the hospital. The family was living in a hole in the ground with no running water or electricity, but they had the walls and the wood from the trees and the floors, so they had to fix up and pay for those things. They were in a car together most of the time, and the children always had some fun that way. But it was difficult. The children were on the rebound of their initial disappointment, and it was much easier to get into a car with the Sams to play because their world was so bright. And although the father and daughter, at that time, were more similar than different, the elder Sams didn't really know how to raise his little girl. His daughter was always so clever, and even at an early age she was showing potential. And so he became her cheerleader, trying to drive home the message that she was worthy of happiness. She was bright, too, and her energy, and that seemed to make the difference in her place in the family.

His wife still worked, and this allowed him to get into a car once a week to spend time with the children. He had taken the children to Coney Island, as a class project, but the cars were so old and the driving was too slippery for them, and so he had stopped. They were often playing outside, and his wife didn't mind spending time with them, and so they would call the car. "I will be home in a few minutes."

It took him twenty minutes.

"I will be back in thirty."

It took him another twenty minutes.

"It will be over soon."

"Two minutes."

"It will be over."

"In two minutes."

"Locked up."

"Open the door. Open the door!"


The door had been unlocked, but someone had jumped the counter and escaped, and the Sams got the car to chase the fleeing person. The man ended up running back into the park, from which he had started, and chased a little ways, and then stopped, and jumped the wall, and ran across the lake. He disappeared into the forest again, and his wife started to drive home, but she had to wait a little while because the man had waded into the water and disappeared. She called him back. "The door is open!" she shouted, and he yelled back, "What's happening here? Let me in!" She started the car, but he was pushing her against the windshield, so she backed off and waited.

"He thinks he's smarter than me. He is that stupid. I'm going to fuck him."

She got out of the car and stood facing him. The water was bright blue. She was wearing her long red dress that she had worn on many occasions. She was choking back tears. The man had walked along the banks of the lake and sat in the water, and she saw him take off his shoes, and then he noticed her, and he called back, "Where is it? Where is it? Bring me out here." She didn't see any way to give him the water, but she knew she had to find a way.

He appeared behind her. "Bring me in," he repeated. She made her way back to the car, but she was shaking so much she had to close the door. She started to drive back to the house, and when she got there, she paused. She had started to cry, and she sat down in the driver's seat and began to cry. She leaned forward and covered her eyes with her arms. She had no idea what had just happened, but she felt sick and sad and sad, and they were the only things that came to her mind. She had planned to take her daughters out to lunch that afternoon. Her husband and her daughters and the women from the playground took her shopping. They drove her to the school and ate lunch in the cafeteria, and after that they drove around in circles until she felt better, and then drove back.

The man who had waded into the lake was sitting out in the pool in the woods. He was throwing mud onto the shore, and a small child was playing in the water. The woman walked up to the man, and after she had hugged him, she said, "Come here. I want you to see the girl." The woman had seen the girl, and she had fallen in love with her. She couldn't quite believe she would have to steal her away from her new family, and so she called in a favor from someone. The man had somehow recognized the girl from his grandfather's visit, and this was his opportunity to fulfill a promise he had made to his grandfather. He had grown up into such a cruel man that he actually thought he could steal someone from the world he had come from, and then they would be his forever.

"I'm your favorite grandson," she said, and the man smiled. "You know me."



"Who?"

"I won't tell."

"I won't tell me."

"Then why do you ask?"

"You're beautiful."



He nodded, and he began to hug her. "It is not possible."



"You know it is possible."

The man hugged her back. She had never felt anything like this before. "Please," he whispered. He had taken her here so she could be with him, and now she was begging him to forgive her for what she had done. "I'm your only friend."

"I will not."

"You love me."

"I love you, too."

They were holding hands, and the woman wept, and then she smiled and he felt a sense of release in her embrace.

"It will be okay," she said.

"No, it won't."

"I promise."

They stood in the park for a little while, and the woman looked back. "It is over now."

The man let her go. "It is over," he said. "I made my promise. I'm sorry."

She stopped in front of the police station. There were times when she'd had a hard time accepting this. It wasn't just the man and her daughter and her grandchildren. She remembered her mother, and her grandfather, and when she put the thought of the man behind her, she put the thought of what she had to do behind her. "There's nothing I can do," she told herself. "They're probably right, and I am, too."

She let her head fall back against the back seat. A man came in, put a coat over her, and took her away from the view of the public. She didn't want the woman to see her now.

Her children started the car. She couldn't stand them, but she hated her job. She couldn't see any of them. She couldn't stop thinking about what she had just done, and she let them sit in the car while she drove home and in silence she drove into the darkness, letting her mind wander from the pain to the journey home. Her thoughts were like sirens. The sound of one lingered, and then another. She pulled over to the side of the road. The headlights of a car passing by shone in through the windshield. She heard it, but couldn't do anything.

 Her children came to the car, and she took her hands and put them around them. She was a victim of an accident, and her children were victims of her regret. She closed her eyes, and looked at them. They were wearing clothes from their dresses, and they were out of their seats. Her sons hugged her, and she wanted to hug them back, but she couldn't. They were just so big. Her daughter was on the ground, and she couldn't stop crying, and her grandchildren were in the front seat, and her hands were around them, and her car had just ran into another car and she had died and they were nothing and she'd put them down and that was when she died too. She didn't want to die, but her hands trembled when she tried to hold them back. Her eyes were now a sea of tears, and she was shaking so much that she almost fainted, and she had just run into a car and she was dead and she would have died anyway, and if she wanted to die she would, but she was drowning. She wanted to hold her children, and not let her mouth go. She wanted to kiss them on the lips, and not bite the tip of her lip off.

When she opened her eyes, it was morning. They were all in bed, and she was on her knees, still half asleep, but she opened her eyes and saw her daughter's shirt, and she had lost a shirt, but she was a little put off. She was in her clothes from the night before, and they were all dirty, and there was so much blood on her arm, and it was starting to turn blue. It was too bright to make out, so she tried to fight through it, but then she saw her family. Her husband and her two daughters were alive, and they were screaming. She was screaming with them, and that was a comfort. She wanted to save them. She wanted to save them. She wanted to be with her family again.

She pushed her skirt down, and they were all naked in the bed. She couldn't do anything, and she kept pushing her skirt down. Her daughters were wearing their nightgowns, and their bodies were all hairy, and their fingers were all dirty, and the rest of them were so young, so much younger than she had been before she had been born, and they were all so handsome, and she could never get enough of them, and she wanted to kiss them all, but she couldn't, and they were screaming, so she backed away, and when she looked at them they were starting to laugh, and that was a relief.

She was so tired, but she was still good, still kind. Her daughters were screaming her name, and she wanted to kiss them all, and she stood at the foot of her bed, and they were still screaming, and her heart was beating so fast. She put her arms around them and they began to cry.

They cried for her, and she was still good, so she kissed them all. She kissed her daughters, but she kissed them too gently. She kissed her husband, but she kissed him too roughly, and she kissed his eye, and then he went back to his dying, and she kissed him on the top of his head, and she kissed his lips, and she kissed him, and she kissed him, and he smiled at her, and she squeezed his hands, and he kissed her, and he loved her, and she kissed him back, and she pressed her lips to his, and she lifted her head up and kissed him, and she was so good, so kind, and the men came and they all came, kissing her and holding her hands, and she was so young and she had never felt so loved.

She wasn't sure how long she stayed like that, but when she was about to stop her mother came in. She walked around the bed and looked into the girls' faces, and her mother kissed them both on the cheeks. When she smiled, their eyes went wide and they started to cry again, and this time she didn't cry. Her mother kissed them again, and her daughter's lips were clean and her mother kissed her, and her daughter squeezed her hands, and her mother put her hands on her shoulders and she hugged her.

A smile fell over her mother's face and she picked up the dresses.

"Thank you," she said, and the girl's eyes darted about the room. She could already hear the whisper of surprise in their voices, and she looked at the baby in her arms and felt her heart break again.


"She's going to love you so much," she said, and the girl gave a teary-eyed smile. Her mother hugged her and kissed her and smiled.

She looked at them again and the dream faded, and she started to open her eyes, and she tried to sit up, but her mother was there, holding her and whispering into her hair.

"Please, forgive me," she said, and her mother kissed her, and they turned around and they hugged, and they ran to the front door and her mother got on the front porch, and she turned off the light, and they cried together, and their mother walked them back to the house, and the world was gone, and they both sobbed.

Mama smiled at her daughter, and she fell asleep. She thought she would wake her up, but she didn't, and when she woke up she was again holding her daughter.

That was twenty-two years ago, and Mama turned sixty-eight, and the baby is eighteen years old, and Mama is still holding her, and when she hears them cry she thinks of the time when they lost her, and she thinks of the times when she held them, and that will always remind her of the good things she has done for them, and the times she was a bad mother and did things to hurt them, but today she is so good that she has gotten used to that, and she knows it is the way of things, and she knows she will continue to be that way for a long, long time, and she will not think of how she might have been a different person if she hadn't stayed with her.

She is good, and she loves her children, and she is kind, and she has done what she could for them and they have kept her loving, and they have been so good, and that makes her think of her mother, and she thinks about her, and she thinks about all the times she could have been a terrible mother, and all the times she did them great things, and how she could have been good, and she thinks of her as she falls asleep, and she thinks how much she loves her, and she hopes for the day when she is a very old woman, and maybe then she can have the face she had as a little girl, and she is sure she will.

Truly.

This will be going on a lot longer than you expect. Please bear with me.<|endoftext|>Uber has announced in a blog post that it will be shutting down its in-app payment service, UberCash, at the end of the month. The change comes two months after Uber cut off payments for apps that were being run by contractors. This has led to many apps shutting down in recent months.

It's not clear if the company will be shutting down UberCash completely or only take it offline until December. The change may also include the car hire option, which was available on some apps until now. It doesn't look like this change will affect Android users.

The blog post from CEO Travis Kalanick states that, "We are now going to close UberCash. Starting on December 15, we will delete your account. If you had an Uber account that used your credit card, you will need to replace