 But instead of eating the floor, Jiggy Juts started to dig through his bag and found a machine gun. He pulled the trigger, and the machine gun started to sound like a chainsaw.
Jiggy Juts was freaking out because he'd been warned by The Server not to fire that machine gun on purpose. They're playing it safe. "We don't need your gun. You just take a little needle." "Fine. I'm going to go get a metal spoon."
Cursed with Magical Powers
Jiggy Juts opened his bag of chocolate-covered sprinkles and picked up the metal spoon. "I don't want anything now." The spoon started to shape itself into a rifle, the spoon sticking straight out. "I want a spoon!"
 Jiggy Juts grabbed a few chocolate-covered sprinkles, just like he'd learned, and slapped them into his hands.
But this time the sprinkles didn't go into his hands. The sprinkles were different. Jiggy Juts tried to hit the metal spoon with his spoon. But the spoon didn't hit Jiggy Juts. There was nothing on the spoon. "Why is the spoon stuck?" Jiggy Juts asked The Server. "You'll just have to put a sprinkles gun into the spoon," The Server told him.
"Just one sprinkles gun, please," Jiggy Juts begged.
But then Jiggy Juts got a little white powder on his hands. "There's no powder!" he told The Server. "I want to reload."
"Well we need more sprinkles," The Server said.
"More sprinkles? I need more sprinkles!" "What?" Jiggy Juts said.
"You can't load a gun without bullets," The Server said.
Jiggy Juts reached down and grabbed a chocolate-covered sprinkles and emptied it into the barrel of his gun. "I need more sprinkles, please!" Jiggy Juts yelled, not realizing it. He ended up putting way too many sprinkles into the gun. The gun immediately looked like a stick of dynamite, "It's like I'm holding this gun and I'm saying a word and the gun can do whatever I say! Wow, man!" Jiggy Juts asked The Server. "I can take another sprinkles gun and replace the gun you were holding with a claymore," The Server told him. "No," Jiggy Juts said. "I want two sprinkles guns. I want an airsoft gun, and then I want one more airsoft gun and I want one more claymore." "What?!" Jiggy Juts said. "I want three, man!" "Alright," The Server said. "You can have the airsoft guns, but only one of them is powered up, and it will not be powered up until you turn it off. They were worth twenty thousand dollars on eBay."
"I can only have one of each?" Jiggy Juts asked The Server.
"No," The Server told him. "You can have two, but the Powered Up and the Airsoft guns won't be powered up until you turn them off." "How are they powered up? I want to play!"
"We're not going to be around much longer, so we'd better have something useful for you," The Server said. "So we're going to give you three things," The Server said, giving Jiggy Juts some more candy. Jiggy Juts looked on the ground for more candy and ran out of his way and dove under the airplane. He was shocked to see the chocolate-covered sprinkles pile up all over him. They were... Giant Chocolate-covered Sprinkles. The sprinkles weren't even sprouting out of Jiggy Juts, they were already everywhere. "Giant sprinkles, man! Giant chocolate sprinkles!"
 Jiggy Juts said to The Server. "No, man. I don't want any more sprinkles." "Okay, fine," The Server said. Jiggy Juts looked around, and saw the sprinkles had fallen on the floor like snowflakes.
Dealing with the Stuck Little Stuff
Meanwhile, Jiggy Juts ran into The Server, who was holding a pail of water. "No! Don't give me any water, man! There's sprinkles everywhere!" Jiggy Juts said. "It's just a pail of water," The Server told him. "Hey, no, don't turn it over! It's dangerous! I know it is!" "I'm going to watch out, man," The Server told him. "Okay. It's the right way, but my hand is sticking out like crazy!" Jiggy Juts started to scream. "What?" The Server asked. "I saw the pail when I was hiding under the airplane!" Jiggy Juts said. The Server and Jiggy Juts ran off towards the ramp. Jiggy Juts walked along the ramp, but just as he got to the door of the plane he tripped and fell. He made a big splash, and then his mouth filled with sprinkles. The sprinkles stuck to his lips and the door. Jiggy Juts turned around and saw the sprinkles on the ground. "What are you doing here?" Jiggy Juts asked the Server. "My little boy is still in there," The Server said. "No," Jiggy Juts said. "We got him!" The Server told him. "What? Why? He can't get out!" "Yes, but he has to be a little bit here," The Server said. "Did you get him?" Jiggy Juts asked the Server. "No," The Server told him. Jiggy Juts ran into the back of the plane and opened the door. The sprinkles fell to the ground like snowflakes. Jiggy Juts looked at the sprinkles and said, "What?"
He made a big splash, and then his mouth filled with sprinkles. The sprinkles stuck to his lips and the door. Jiggy Juts turned around and saw the sprinkles on the ground. "What are you doing here?" Jiggy Juts asked the Server. "My little boy is still in there," The Server said. "No," Jiggy Juts said. "We got him!" The Server told him. "What? Why? He can't get out!" "Yes, but he has to be a little bit here," The Server said. "Did you get him?" Jiggy Juts asked the Server. "No," The Server told him. Jiggy Juts ran into the back of the plane and opened the door. The sprinkles fell to the ground like snowflakes. Jiggy Juts looked at the sprinkles and said, "What?"
Dealing with the Bear
 From Hell
In the sun-filled sky, Jiggy Juts ran through the sky until he reached his parent's house, which was full of snow. He turned the switch in his pocket and his cellphone began to beep. He ran to his parent's bedroom and looked at the bed. It was full of snow. He turned on the lights and walked to the window and took a deep breath and looked out at the cold and empty sky. His stomach growled and he walked to the closet and pulled out a shirt and pants. His mouth was ready for a pint of ice cream and a Marlboro Red and he smacked it to the side of his mouth and inhaled deeply and his tongue pointed upward. His parents were in their bedroom, watching him play as he looked back and forth between his parents. They were trying not to laugh, but they were laughing.
 Jiggy Juts began to wave his fists at his parents and said, "I'm gonna fight my parents!" He ran upstairs into his parent's room and started banging on their bedroom door. He slammed his fists on the door a few times before screaming, "Open the door! Open the door!" The door finally gave way and Jiggy Juts started yelling, "I'll fight you! I'm gonna fight you!"
The battle began. Jiggy Juts ran at his parents yelling, "I'm gonna fight you! I'm gonna fight you!" His parents were getting more confused. The teenager's eyes were wider and his mouth was wide open in a wide grin. He had big, bright yellow sunglasses that covered his eyes and he had a big, fuzzy little jacket on. They could barely make out his face. His hair was a deep cornflower blue, he wore a yellow jacket that reached halfway to his knees, and he had a white hat with a skull, crossbones, and the words WINK on the front.
Then, Jiggy Juts jumped out the window and landed on the street in front of them. He raised his hand and held it in front of him as he was walking toward them. The eyes of both his parents widened. He knew they were just going to stand there staring at him. Jiggy Juts' parents followed him to his house as he walked by their house every few minutes and showed no signs of stopping.
Jiggy Juts returned from his yard and found his parents sitting in front of the television. Jiggy Juts' parents knew it was snowing again, but Jiggy Juts didn't stop to pick up his parent's phone. He just held it in his hand and walked out of the room. Jiggy Juts walked down the stairs to his room. He walked across the carpeted floor toward his bed. Then, he looked to his parent's room and said, "We're gonna fight!" They didn't respond. He opened his door and headed into the bedroom. He grabbed his parent's phones from their nightstands and then went over to the computer and opened a browser. He looked for the weather and then to the dictionary to look for definitions of fuck. He clicked on that link, read the definition, and smirked at the webpage he saw. He closed the browser and then went to the closet. He grabbed a pair of black and white shorts and put them on.
In the hall, Jiggy Juts' parents watched their son put on his sneakers. They had similar shoes. Then, Jiggy Juts opened his parent's bedroom door. He stood in the doorway, with his arm outstretched, and held his father's hand. The parents went to kiss, but Jiggy Juts put his arm around his father's shoulders and stayed there.
Jiggy Juts' parents were discussing the weather. "I'm not sure I want to look outside at all," Jiggy Juts' mother said.
"Oh, he's all riled up," Jiggy Juts' father said. "You know he gets all excited when he's out snow-shoeing."
"Where did you pick him up?" Jiggy Juts' mother asked her husband.
"I don't know," Jiggy Juts' father said.
Jiggy Juts' father said to Jiggy Juts, "You should go have fun."
"Okay, dad," Jiggy Juts' mother said. "I'm gonna run down to the garage and show you how to snow shoe."
Jiggy Juts' parents watched the snow fall and then walked back outside. They stood in the doorway of their house and looked at their son. "Did you meet with your father and the snow-shoeing expert?" Jiggy Juts' mother asked.
"I didn't get there till after the sun had gone down," Jiggy Juts' father said.
"That's okay," Jiggy Juts' mother said. "We're just going to wait outside for a while and then go in and watch the sunset."
They turned off the lights and walked to the garage. They sat in the living room and put on a CD with songs Jiggy Juts liked and listened to them together. They both sat on the couch watching the TV. Jiggy Juts' mother left the living room to go back to the garage. Jiggy Juts' father looked at Jiggy Juts. "You should go see your father," he said.
Jiggy Juts' father walked to the garage and opened the door. He turned around and walked into the garage. He stood in the doorway and held his father's hand. The snow-shoeing expert didn't stop talking. "I'm glad I was right about you," the snow-shoeing expert said. "I've been watching you with my flashlight. You should come and visit."
They watched the sun go down. The lights of the moon and the setting sun illuminated their dark living room.
They went to bed. Jiggy Juts' mother went back inside to get a drink of water and his father went out to the house's garage to open the door. They looked at each other as they walked in.
"Where did you pick him up?" Jiggy Juts' mother asked her husband.
"I don't know," Jiggy Juts' father said.
"You should go have fun."
"Okay, dad," Jiggy Juts' mother said.
"You should go and tell your father where to find you."
Jiggy Juts' mother opened the front door of the garage and went inside. They sat in the living room and looked at each other.
"Did you find him?" Jiggy Juts' mother asked.
"Yes, I did," Jiggy Juts' father said.
"Then we'll meet again tomorrow," Jiggy Juts' mother said.
The sky was beginning to lighten,