Living like this, for the first three years of her life, was hard enough, but it was even harder for her mother, who was a poor old woman, who could not get enough to eat, and who must pass the time begging on the streets.

She sat down at Aunt Em's table and tried to eat, but she found that she could not hold any thing, and could hardly hold herself up, for her weak, half-stubborn little body felt so sluggish and empty. She was thirsty, too, for there was not one drop of fresh water in the house.

Uncle Henry and Aunt Em, December 1915

Dorothy's next guest was a boy named William.

William was no soldier, but a tradesman, who made tires and also wagons. He had the same gray, old face and the same boundless eyes. He had not spoken to Dorothy since she came, but his face lighted up at the mention of her name and his eyes flashed with an eagerness that caught Dorothy's fancy.

Chapter 4

Early in the spring, Dorothy noticed the old gray house-front, just like Uncle Henry's, looking grayer and grayer, but like a saint she sat down on the porch to rest. It was now too late to go out and look for berries, as they were then, and it was winter. The cold night wind rushed down the bleak Kansas prairie, and the dim lights in the eyes of the citizens; the tempest wind blew across the dry, cold land to the stormy little red mountains, and blew through them, drenching and scorching them with sudden showers of rain; the hills were so cold that they curled up their new white snowdrifts and took a second breath before re-emerging again.

She passed a fence that led up to the old gray house-front, and looked back at it from the yard. "What a gray place it is," she said; "it's like the sky to be, too. I wish I could be brave like Uncle Henry."

They opened the door and made a dash across the lawn to the porch, where Aunt Em had her handkerchief for wetting her face. There they stood for a minute or so, where they could see nothing but the wide-spreading wind-waves.

"Dorothy, have you ever heard of that black dog?" he asked, smiling.

Dorothy shook her head and asked nothing; she could not speak.

"I think he knows we're coming to the house," Uncle Henry said.

By the time they reached the shed, though, they saw that it was not the same as before. The ground there was dry and dusty and pebbly, with a small train of tires treading over it; and the horse where the master of the house, a little fellow named Felix, had lived, with gray whiskers and tiny ears, and huge hands, and a face like a lion, was long gone.

They both jumped upon the small bucket she held. The air was thick with dust, but the little wisps of cotton-suckle still twined between Aunt Em's hair and her own, and Aunt Em could hardly breathe. "Help! Help!" she whispered to Dorothy.

They ran up the winding stairs, dropping their burdens of baskets and bundles to the floor in the doorway. All on that side was broken concrete, and their hearts beat against the walls and the floor. They went into the cellar, the door slammed shut, and the dust-filled air rushed in upon them. They could not breathe.

CHAPTER 5

THERE WAS BUT ONE WAY OUT OF THAT DEPTH BELOW. IT HAD BEEN DESTROYED.

A common office desk was toppled from its three-legged supporting pillar, and it came crashing down into a hulking, bulging hole, while the sides bulged out in every direction and emerged farther, farther, farther until the ceiling was a hundred feet high. A long black whirlpool led to the hole, then to another that brought the slender line of light through a wide hole at the end. The light streaming into the chamber did not illumine a single window, because when they got out Aunt Em had collapsed a large piece of window glass.

When the smoke of the black hole had cleared from her vision, Dorothy had found herself drifting on, through wind and current and darkness, until she came suddenly to a black wall at her back, just as she had stood when she woke up in the dreadful year before.

The wide, grey blue sky above them now grew dark as the hours turned into days and the blackness grew. But there was still light in every direction, and those who looked back could see clouds, still on the horizon, moving south and east in the face of the wind.

And then the house fell away from her and passed right through the centre of the cyclone, and the whirlpool looked like a low, narrow wooden boat that had been torn from the waterfront and hurled against the rocks at the edge of the sea, where the wind carried it away and knocked it against the rocks.

Suddenly she turned and saw the stone house turning away from her. She couldn't tell what direction it was turning, but she heard the gurgling sound as it hit the bottom of the cyclone, and the whistling sounds of it like the puffs of a large billiard ball that are whirled into each other by a strong wind.

No more laughter and tears. It was as if all was over, and in that peaceful atmosphere Dorothy could see the sky in its pastures for the last time, and feel the air rising in a deep, almost forest-like sigh of freshness and peace. Then the house sailed off.

"Hey!" she whispered to Toto, who bounded up and down in the empty room, excited, and at last said:

THE END


Read the whole story in one PDF file (38 KB).


Here are some links to more online stories by Ursula LeGuin:

Read about reading at schools.


Visit this website.


Books about Ursula LeGuin:

As it turned out, the shock had come from another room, and there were three people sitting in it—all waiting for the house to fall. The men—one a young man—were staring at Dorothy in fear, and only seemed to be listening to her frightfully sweet voice, so that she had to say a few words to make them understand she did not mean to scare them. It was plain that they did not know what was coming to her; and the girl who came to her rescue would never have done so if she had known what it was she was helping to do. But the first thing to come into her head was to go to the window and tell them she was staying away, so they knew not where to look, and then to reach the window and open it just as it was about to fall.

Little girls, young women, old women—they all sat together in the room, rather bewildered by this strange dream of Dorothy LeGuin's. She had imagined that these beautiful people would not understand what she was doing; but her friend laughed heartily and answered:

In the midst of the enchanted fields was a vast and spacious house.

The garden was fountains, springs, and gardens, with other curious things for miles around. The church was a charming chapel, and there was a merry little churchyard full of old graves. There was a market-place, and vendors of all kinds sold their wares. And all through the house there were beautiful old wooden figures of churches with roofs like beautiful fanlike helices, and areolas of