EXT. A HOUSE IN THE HOLLYWOOD HILLS - NIGHT

The view of downtown Los Angeles from the enormous, ornate house
is extraordinary.  A small outdoor dinner party is in progress.

A MAGICIAN is entertaining guests.  Playing cards and coins
appear and disappear in his nimble hands.

INT. HOUSE STUDY - NIGHT

   	EDWARD HARRIS stands at the window, impassively looking down
at the party.  Edward is a handsome, well groomed man of around
forty.  He looks tired; the kind of fatigue that can't be cured
by a night's sleep.

		    EDWARD
		(a murmur)
	Left pocket.

And indeed, down below, the magician pulls the coin from the
left pocket of the incredulous WOMAN's silk blazer.  More
laughter and applause.

The study is in keeping with the rest of the house.  Luxurious.
Everything the best.  WILLIAM STUCKEY, Edward's contemporary,
is a crafty looking lawyer who is the party host.  VANCE is an
investment banker.  His assistant JAKE, is a financial
researcher.  The other men are INVESTMENT BANKERS.  They are
in dark suits and power ties.  On the table are stacks of 
documents and folders, the name "KROSS INDUSTRIES" is prominent
on many of the folders.

		    INVESTMENT BANKER 1
	Our banks certainly doesn't want
	to discourage Harris Enterprises
	from investing in California.
	We think this is a great new venue
	for you but you've got to
	understand the mergers and
	acquisitions market is changing.
	With the upswing in inflation we
	have to make these offerings
	tempting to offset the risk.

		    VANCE
	Look, we're talking about hard
	assets and a straight liquidation.
	We have over a thousand man hours
	in this deal.

		    STUCKEY
		(losing patience)
	This is a "no brainer".  There's
	no risk for you.  No one has ever
	lost money backing Mr. Harris.

		    INVESTMENT BANKER 2
	Not yet.  But ship building is
	a new endeavor for you...

		    STUCKEY
		(cuts him off)
	Come on.  You know we're not 
	going to go into ship building.
	Besides, you're the ones with the
	troubled track record, not us!

		    INVESTMENT BANKER 3
	Bill, be reasonable.  If you're
	really going to digest Kross
	Industries that quickly eighteen
	should not be such a problem.
	Besides, I don't think there's
	anywhere else you can go for the
	money in the time you have.

		    EDWARD
	It's unacceptable.

Edward turns from the window.  He hasn't miss a thing.  All
eyes are on him.
