 of book reviews in the latest Scientific American, into the layering of a lasagna, garlic king of a bread, tearing up of romaine leaves, eventually, oven on, into the mixing of the twilight's whiskey sours against the arrival of her husband, Wendell ("Mucho") Maas from work, she wondered, wondered, shuffling back through a fat deckful of days which seemed (wouldn't she be first to admit it?) more or less identical, or all pointing 
 in roughly the same direction.

When Oedipa got home she cried, didn't know how much, for many long minutes, and then came up with that often enough, two people's wanton moments being too much. Wendell lay across the back seat of her car and was sitting up when she arrived home. She started holding him more carefully, so as not to bump his head on the window, and almost drifted off until she could think of little else. "In other words, I won't remember my husband's name, Wendell," she told herself.

 "Or maybe it won't be him, and I'll know who died." She opened her window and sat down with her arms on the steering wheel and turned the key. "I won't be able to take it, won't be able to get there."

She lost two hours, wasn't able to drive. She was sad. And maybe this wasn't the time to get angry. Oedipa had something of a position of privilege; she had just come through a dozen solid months with the murder of one man and a whole quarter of a century of acquaintance with that same man, when the only memory she could derive was of his unholy ghost that seemed to hide away as often as it was borne up to meet it. Was that at all real, her itchy sense that somebody was out there who wasn't quite supposed to be there, trailing slowly across the sun-kissed fields of lowlands and behind the straight and narrow lanes of what appeared to be an English village?

What happened in the fall of 1966 and early 1967 wasn't the best of times, but if she had to go by only the state's case and two sworn affidavits, it was bad, she thought, with things festering under her. I think it's worse here than when I came here, she said herself, and then shifted her viewpoint; people are really bad here, people are all over the map, and yet she sees them all the same.
 It could have all been better, she thought. "He was even worse than he was before," she thought, "and I'm the mother of his child." I really wish that he were here, she said, and felt a rumbling in her, remembering and disbelieving this last sentence, old hat.

By the time she finished cooking breakfast the next morning, she felt a familiar course of fatigue (she knew this feeling, had felt it before and gone through it) but not quite because of anything she'd done. It was the same stuff of the weeks gone by. By three o'clock in the afternoon she was feverishly studying the latest installment in the The Winnipeg Free Press and wondering, if she was going to have another baby, what time they were going to have the baby. Later, after Wendell had gone to bed, and she had fallen into a restless, frenzied sleep, it became clear that those thoughts had been heading away from the child, toward her father. Her husband was supposed to come out and hug her one more time. And something strange happened: no hug.


Part 1

Fifteen-thirty on that sunny October day in the early nineteen-seventies in Lake of the Woods, an hour's drive from Indiana, was a normal day. It was a typical county-issue late afternoon: a burst of snow, mostly covering the ground at eight or nine o'clock; an overweight man riding a first-class brown ticket train, in cotton dress and gold plate badge, who was carrying a sapphire metallic briefcase into St. Martinville, Oklahoma City; he stood before the crescent-shaped office of the Mulberry County Auditor; one of those large stainless steel doors opened and a ruggedly handsome man walked out in his tan, easy-looking suit, without his outer appearance a warning sign to any observer. The man was Wendell Sams, chief of police of Mulberry County, and his name was Earl Sams.

Earl Sams had been a cop for nineteen years. He'd been born on this farm in 1917 and made it into adulthood with farm-yard kinbaku and wide experience of the milieu of farmers' wives, country festivals,