"The Game Design of Art."

The base essay for a talk by Jason Rohrer



A lot of people are talking about whether or not games can be art.  The base assumption for this conference is that games can be art.  I, personally, am finished thinking about that question.  So this is a talk about making art---how can we make art with our games?  When I say "art," I really want you to know what I mean.  A lot of people throw their hands up in the air about art and say that it's undefinable, or that we'll never agree on what it is.  But that doesn't help us much if we're *trying* to make artgames.  How can we set out to make artgames if we don't know what art is?  Perhaps a strong definition that we can all agree on is impossible, so instead I'll give you a weak definition that we can use as a starting point.  If a work:

1.  successfully explores complex and subtle aspects of the human condition, or
2.  gives viewers valuable and lasting insights about themselves or aspects of the world around them, or
3.  leaves viewers thinking about the work long after they are done experiencing it.

then it is art.

It's not concise, but I hope we can agree that if a work does one or more of these things, then it is art.  If it doesn't do any of these things, it might still be art---after all, this is a weak definition (if-then, not if-and-only-if).  There may be all sorts of other goals for art, but why not start small and shoot for something on this list?  After all, most existing games don't do any of these things, so it's not exactly well-trodden ground. 

Okay, so we now have a goal.  Let's do it.  But where do we start?  Let's start by looking at film.

Games are compared to films a lot in contemporary discussion.  Some of that comparison is wrongheaded---where people are wondering whether games will ever be as "good as movies," or where people are claiming that movies can be art but games cannot be art, or where people imagine a future in which games are essentially just interactive movies.  But there's another kind of comparison with films that I think is much more useful.  We can examine how films can be used to communicate, and how films differ from books in this regard, and that will give us some insight into how we might use games to communicate.  Not by aping film, but by taking a hard look at how games are different from film and pushing in that direction.

Film makers have a collection of tools available to them that are unique to their medium.  The very best films use all of the tools available in the film toolbox---for example, camera angles, cuts, camera motion, coloring, lighting, sound, music, and acting---and they use these tools in such a way that all of these various dimensions resonate with what the film is trying to express.  Regardless of whether we're trying to make art, I think that resonance of all of our various aspects of the work is important.  Resonance is really the key.  

As an example, let's examine the film "Memento."  We can read into this film and find all sorts of subtle messages that it may be trying to express, but to keep things simple, I am going to stick with a surface-level interpretation.  The film is trying to express what it's like to have a particular type of brain damage.

With that core purpose in mind, we can examine the film's various dimensions and look for resonance.  The reverse scene order---the most famous aspect of this film---certainly resonates.  The choice of black and white versus color for different sections of the movie resonates.  The story resonates (we have people manipulating the main character, we have the main character killing John G. over and over again without knowing it).  The production resonates (the main character's tattoos, anonymous motel rooms, attention to extreme detail of particular daily actions of the main character).  The music resonates---it's alienating.

All of these aspects that I've listed above feed into the core point to the film.  They helped to put you into the shoes of this brain-damaged individual.

Okay, so that's films.  How are games different?  Games can have cuts, and lighting, and camera angles, and music, and potentially acting.  But games have one more additional feature that makes them unique and sets them apart from any other medium:  gameplay.  

Game designer types like myself throw the term "gameplay" around a lot.  Most of you probably have an intuitive understanding of what gameplay is, but a precise definition is a bit harder to come by.  A vague definition is simply "what the player does," so gameplay seems to be a catch-all term for whatever kind of interactivity a game might contain.  But we are talking about games here, and not the broader category of interactive art.  We can get a better handle on "gameplay" by thinking of it as a collection of game mechanics.  What are game mechanics?  They are the rules that govern the interaction of the various components of the game.  We can run through a well-known games as an example.

Pac-Man Game Components
--blue walls
--small dots
--large dots
--4 ghosts
--Pac-Man
--Life counter  
--Score

Pac-Man Game Mechanics
--Pac-Man/Ghosts can move in a continuous fashion
--Ghosts/Pac-Man cannot pass through blue walls
--Pac-Man hits colored ghost, Pac-Man returns to start location, life counter decremented
--Life counter reaches 0, game ends
--Pac-Man hits small dot, it disappears and adds 10 to score
--Pac-Man hits large dot, it disappears, adds 50 to score, ghosts turn blue
--Pac-Man hits blue ghost, add 200 (or 400, 800, 1600) to score, ghost sheet disappears.
--After 10 seconds, blue ghosts turn back to original colors
--Sheetless ghosts that enter the central base are given new sheets.
--Last small dot eaten, move on to next level.

Note how we don't talk about AI or behavior at all, but this still defines the game of Pac-Man pretty tightly.  In fact, you could plug a variety of ghost behavior into these mechanics (ghosts move around maze in circles, etc.), and it would still be Pac-Man (though we might notice that the ghosts are acting strange).  We could even play Pac-Man as a board game, with one player controlling Pac-Man and another controlling the four ghosts, with each character moving one step per turn---this would still be Pac-Man.  However, if we change a mechanic in a non-trivial way, then the game ceases to be Pac-Man.

So now we should all be on the same page about gameplay and game mechanics.

Sure, we can use game technology to produce works without gameplay.  But we all acknowledge that gameplay is very important---we're not really trying to make interactive movies.  I'll push this point a bit further:  because it sets games apart and makes them unique, gameplay is the most important tool of our medium.  But so what?  Everyone knows this.  People have been beating the "gameplay is key" drum for decades.

The funny thing, given this general acknowledgment, is that gameplay rarely resonates with what the game is trying to express.  It's not that gameplay is an afterthought.  In fact, the exact opposite is usually true---the gameplay is the forethought, and everything else, including the game's message, the slapped on top of it.  As proof of this, notice how we often see a huge variety of different themes and story-lines slapped on top of the same underlying gameplay---for example, first-person shooters and sneaking games.  In fact, even our so-called game genres are based around mechanics.  Stealth, platformer, shooter, etc.  This differs substantially from films, where the genres are instead based on content (Romance, thriller, comedy, etc). 

Going back to the film Memento briefly:  imagine if they had approached the project knowing that they wanted to make a movie where the scenes were shown in reverse chronological order, and from that point they asked, "What's this movie going to be about?"   That sounds rather backward, doesn't it?  The point is that they didn't approach it this way.  They started with an idea about a character who had this particular kind of brain damage---loss of the ability to make new memories, and everything else, including the reverse scene order, flowed from there.  But when we make games, we generally use a process very close to what we just called "backwards":  we select a particular kind of gameplay and then ask "What's this game going to be about?"

Many games these days try to express some complex, subtle observations about the human condition.  But because these observations are an afterthought to the gameplay, all the expression happens through cut scenes and linear story-lines.  For example, we can talk about Metal Gear Solid 1 and 2.  These games have very different story lines and underlying messages.  MGS 2's story has high aspirations.  What does it mean the fight for what you believe in?  How do you know what you're really fighting for?  The simulated versus the real, and how to tell the difference.  It even contains self-referential post modern points about what it means to play character in a game---the story and MGS 2 is really about MGS 2 itself.  Characters in the game talk about the game and even ask you to turn off the console.  Now, I haven't talked about MGS 1's story or message at all, but suffice it to say that it's much less complex and quite different overall.  But we have pretty much exactly the same gameplay in both games---sneaking missions and high-tech combat.  The only thing that really resonates with the story and message of MGS 2 is the replacement of Snake with Raiden for the second half of the game, but that's not really a gameplay change.

So yes, we do have games, like MGS 2, that express something complex and subtle, but not using the full set of tools that are available.  Of course these games use gameplay, but not in a reinforcing, resonating way.  It would be like filming a romantic ballroom dance scene and a violent street rumble using exactly the same camera angles and camera motion.  For the dance scene, we would probably want smooth, sweeping overhead camera motion, maybe with a crane.  For the rumble, we might want a jerky hand-cam held low to the ground.

You can certainly create dissonance on purpose to make a point (sweeping, graceful crane cam to film a rumble), but I don't think the dissonance between expression and gameplay in today's games is on purpose.  We need to master resonance before we can ever successfully jar our audience with dissonance.

But the dissonance in games is worse than what is suggested by analogies from film.  We can't forget that the core of the game is the gameplay.  That's what the players are actually doing moment-to-moment.  That's their point of focus.  After they pick their jaws of off the floor, and their delight in your realistic virtual world fades, they see right past all the icing to the core gameplay, to what they are actually doing.

There really isn't a similar core focal point in a film.  One particular lack of resonance won't necessarily spoil a film's power to express.  But if gameplay doesn't resonate, then the heart of the game is out of sync.

We've now come to the part of the talk where I knock BioShock.  I just played this game for the first time last week.  Don't get me wrong---it was an amazing experience.  Rapture, the underwater Art Deco-styled city, was the most inspired game environment I've ever encountered.  The environment was full of elements that made me think---a wonderful, explorable realization of a particular political philosophy run amok.  I'll even call the game a fine work of serious art---certainly the shining star of our medium so far.

But BioShock made me angry.  So much talent and thought and love was poured into it, but they screwed up the most important part of the game:  the gameplay.  Yet another first person shooter.  Enemies jump out at you.  You shoot them.  You manage a meager ammo supply.  You upgrade your weapons.  You face a whole slew of well-decorated key-and-lock puzzles (go see this guy who will give you this item which will help you open the gate to the next area).  Yes, this is a boring retread of tired game mechanics, but that's not my gripe.  My gripe is that these mechanics do not resonate with the artistic expression in the game.  If we're making a game that explores the freedom of the individual versus the good of society (i.e., Randian philosophy), why not devise game mechanics that explore the issue directly?  Why have the expression manifested *just* in the the storyline and environment design?

Why?  Because the designers set out to make a first person shooter.  That was their goal from the start.  Everything else was cobbled on top of this initial choice of mechanics.  Consider the following quote from Ken Levine, Creative Director for the project:  "But for us, game design always comes first.  A lot of the game design elements stayed the same.  Story changed radically, but gameplay always comes first for us."  (Shacknews interview, August 30, 2007)  If you follow the history of BioShock's development, you find that the game's artistic expression did indeed change dramatically over time.  It wasn't even initially supposed to explore Randian philosophy.

So, this is the challenge:  to construct gameplay mechanics that truly resonate with what we are trying to express.  Even the best designers in the industry, like Ken Levine, struggle with this issue.

Furthermore, we might find that if we can leverage gameplay to communicate more and more, we will need to rely on tools from other mediums (like cut-scenes from film) less and less.

These days, we rarely see films that rely on lots of text to communicate.  We've figured out how to communicate all sorts are rather subtle things using film-specific tools.  We no longer need to cut to text in a film and say, "Later that afternoon..."  Instead, we show context shots, like a neighborhood scene with the sun at a lower angle and longer shadows.  But we did see quite a bit of text in the "old days" of film.

Part of the reason we feel the need to include so many cut scenes and linear stories in our games is that our core gameplay communicates very little of true human interest.  But someday, we will look back on these days as the "old days" of game design---back in the days when we had to lift techniques from other, less powerful mediums to express anything worthwhile with our games.  Back before we learned how to express through gameplay directly.

How far are we away from actually expressing meaningful things through gameplay?  There are a handful of game designers---and I mean a literal handful---that are starting to do this.

I'm going to talk about three games, and it might feel odd at first that I'm lumping these together, because on their faces, they're quite different from one another.  The point is that all three of these games use gameplay as metaphor.  I'm going to talk about these games in a particular order, starting with the game that is purely metaphoric, and ending with the game that uses a single metaphoric gameplay element in a more traditional linear narrative structure.  So we'll start with this very pure example, almost as proof they gameplay can be used as metaphor, but our final example will help us see how gameplay as metaphor can be used in almost any game to good effect.

First, "The Marriage" by Rod Humble.  This is a game that is intended to express how marriage felt to the game's creator at a particular point in his life.  The graphics consist of colored squares and circles on a background plane that changes color in subtle ways.  There is no sound or music.  "The Marriage" is an example of a game that is almost pure, abstract, bare game mechanics.  The game mechanics are the point.  By playing the game, you learn about the rules that govern the interactions of various objects.

The only objects you can control are the pink and blue squares, which are initially moving toward each other in the middle of the screen.  The only way you can control them is by mousing over them---doing so causes them to change course and head toward each other.  You'll notice, though, that whenever you act to pull them together, the blue square shrinks somewhat.  When the two squares touch, the blue square shrinks even more and becomes somewhat transparent, while the pink square grows in size and becomes less transparent.  If the squares go for too long without touching, the pink square becomes gradually more transparent.  If either square shrinks down to nothing or fades out completely, the game ends.

The blue square only grows and becomes less transparent when it collides with one of the circles that moves vertically on the screen.  The pink square will also grow a bit from such a collision, but it won't become less transparent.  So, a basic play pattern, which keeps the game from ending right away, seems to be:  send the blue square out to hit circles and grow, then bring it back to collide with the pink square periodically to keep it from fading out.  The twist is that your only control over the blue square is in sending toward the pink square.  Thus, you must use the two squares together, and "sling-shot" them around each other, as you attempt to go after the various circles. 

There are a few details that I'm glossing over here, but I've described the core mechanics of the game and that is enough for us to look at the core metaphors.  Like I said before, with The Marriage, all we have are the mechanics, so if there's any meaning lurking, it must be in the mechanics themselves.  There are many distinct interpretations of these game mechanics, and your own interpretation will probably depend on your own experience, or lack of experience, with romantic relationships and marriage---that's part of what makes this game so interesting.  I'll give one possible reading of the metaphor here.  The two squares represent different aspects of the relationship.  The pink square represents togetherness, and the couple's romantic feelings for each other.  Thus, the pink square fades away if the squares spend too much time apart.  The blue square, on the other hand, represents each individual's need for outside interests and interactions, which are represented by the circles that float by.  The blue square shrinks and fades during together time and needs to be recharged by these outside interactions.  But notice how much the pink square depends on the blue square getting these outside interactions---together time is pretty boring if that's all we have;  what would we talk about?  Thus, we see how both aspects of the marriage are interdependent.

So there's proof-positive that game mechanics can be used as metaphor.  You might think that I'm reading into the mechanics too much with the analysis that I give above, but I challenge you to play the game yourself and try to not read any meaning from it.  Of course, we do have the title to think about, and that primes us for meaning.  

Now on to the next game, Braid, which is by Jonathan Blow.  This game contains an assortment of time manipulation mechanics.  In each of the game's six worlds, time, and your control over it, works in a different way.  The metaphors are not apparent in mechanics themselves, but instead come from a separate storyline that runs in parallel to the gameplay.  This storyline is presented in the form of a series of text passages that appear at the entrance to each world.  For example, the text before World 2 discusses mistakes made in a relationship and the desire to learn from those mistakes without suffering permanent emotional injury---wouldn't it be nice to rewind time, and take back mistakes, without losing the associated learning?  In resonance with this idea, World 2's core mechanic involves the ability to rewind time.  

Braid also contains in-game storyline about a journey to save a princess---a nod to the Super Mario Bros. hero arc.  The parallel text passages tell a story about the pursuit of a lost romantic partner.  These two arcs come together in the end in a very nice way, along with an incredibly elegant game mechanic to resonate with them.

Braid is a game that can be viewed as one large metaphor about mistakes, loss, pursuit, realization, and resignation.  The gameplay mechanics, at each stage in the game, resonate pretty well with their corresponding point in the parallel story arc.

Finally, I'm going to talk about a game that has already been discussed to death, but for all the wrong reasons:  Super Columbine Massacre RPG (SCMRPG), by Danny Ledonne.  There's only one point in the game that is really of interest for the discussion here, and that's the point at which the designer uses gameplay mechanics as metaphor.  The mechanics throughout the game are standard RPG fare:  experience points, leveling up, weapon acquisition, etc.  So how can we possibly use such old, tried-and-true mechanics for the purpose of metaphor?

At the halfway point in the game's narrative, your characters are given the option to end their rampage and commit suicide.  If you decide not to commit suicide, your given further opportunity to continue killing students in the school.  When you finally do choose to commit suicide, you find yourself in Hell.  As it turns out, progressing Hell is extraordinarily difficult.  If you enter Hell with low-level characters, you quickly realize that you'll never stand a chance.  Of course, there's only one way to achieve high-level characters before entering Hell---kill lots of students before committing suicide.  In fact, to succeed in Hell, you need to kill far more than 13, which was the number of students killed in real life.  This might seem strange, because the game mechanics are encouraging a massacre that is more deadly than the real-life event that the game supposedly represents.

But what is this game really about?  What is it exploring?  I think that, if you really give the game a chance and play at all the way through, you'll come to the following conclusion:  this game was designed to explore the world view of these two kids, Eric and Dylan.  The game is meant to put you in their shoes.  The game mechanics are balanced toward getting you to do what they wanted to do.  Not what they actually ended up doing, what they really wanted to do.  In mainstream media coverage, I don't think we were given any real insight into exactly what these two kids were trying to do.  In a strange way, what they were trying to do might actually have been more important than what they actually ended up doing, which was killing 13 of their classmates.

Before you can understand why they wanted to do it, you need to understand what they wanted to do, don't you?  They wanted to kill every single person in their school.  The game mechanics in Super Columbine Massacre RPG don't encourage you to hold your nose and tiptoe gingerly through Eric and Dylan's world.  No, to succeed in the game, you must really get into their shoes and do what they were really trying to do.  However, as the player, you're not forced to do this---you're still given the choice, and that's the powerful part.  You must willingly choose to carry out the ultra-deadly massacre that Eric and Dylan were actually dreaming about.  Suffice it to say that the subjective experience of making that choice, even in a mere game, cannot be easily put into words. 

This game design shows us how even stock standard RPG game mechanics can be leveraged to resonate with a game's core message.  Furthermore, this is all inside a rather traditional linear game narrative.  But even within such a linear structure, we can see how much just one point of resonance coming from the game mechanics dramatically increases the power of the narrative.

So, those are three example games, from purely metaphoric abstraction to concrete narrative with a single resonating gameplay metaphor.  

We can also examine these three games to figure out what element lead the design---in other words, which came first, gameplay or message?  In the case of The Marriage, it's clear that the topic came first.  Mr. Humble set out to create a game that expressed how his marriage felt to him, and he designed game mechanics in service to that expression.  For Braid, on the other hand, Mr. Blow has indicated that he came up with the mechanics first (he wanted to make a game where unlimited rewinding of time was the central mechanic).  The parallel story line followed, and we might call this backward, based on our discussion of films earlier.  However, he clearly picked a parallel story that resonated with the gameplay.  He let the gameplay limit the story, instead of trying to shoehorn a story that didn't fit with the mechanics.  To some extent, mainstream games are already doing this, and that's why we see so many games about soldiers, for example, because those stories fit well with shooting mechanics.  But rarely is a story crafted so tightly around the gameplay as it is in Braid.  Finally, for SCMRPG, it seems that Mr. Ledonne started with mechanics first---he found the RPGMaker tool and then started to think about what he wanted to make with it.  Of course, he picked the topic of Columbine, which was personally significant to him, but then he had to figure out how to fit that into the RPG framework.  Along the way, he ended up tuning the standard RPG mechanics in a way that resonated with what he was trying to express.

Thus, not only do we have examples of gameplay as metaphor being used to varying extents, but we also have some different approaches to the creative process.  Think about what you want to express, then design mechanics around it.  Or, chose mechanics and then do some deep thinking about what those mechanics are actually expressing.  Or, use a mixture of both approaches.

But when we go from here?  Given that we want to make a game about a particular subject, or with a particular storyline, how do we craft game mechanics that resonate?

I think part of the problem is that we haven't learned the limitations or medium yet.  There are certain corners of the human condition that can easily be explored using games, but there are other corners that are much more difficult to explore.  We might even be wasting our time by trying to explore certain subjects with games.  But if we're simply using games to ape movies, we might miss that nuance altogether.  

We might be trying to make a game about Subject X, and we might observe that there's simply no appropriate mechanics that resonate well with our subject.  So, we might continue making the game about that subject, and just forget about finding a resonant mechanic.  But if it's true that there really are no resonant mechanics, then perhaps we shouldn't be making a game about that subject in the first place.  Maybe we've picked a subject that works well for a movie but makes for a bad game.

But if we're not trying to use game mechanics as metaphor in the first place, will have no way of noticing that our subject works poorly for a game.  So, that might be an additional benefit of using gameplay as metaphor:  to reign us in a bit and help us pick topics that are game-worthy.


From email to Brenda Brathwaite on December 23, 2007
>>>>
As I was trying to come up with my next game design, I realized something interesting about games as an art form.  Games are certainly a powerful form, perhaps even more powerful than other mediums in certain cases.  For example, Passage seems to have hit many people harder than an equivalent memento mori painting or film would.  But the thing is, memento mori is not just about saying, "hey, you're going to die."  It's really about the question that follows:  "so what are you going to do with the time that you have left?"  Thus, the heart of memento mori is really about this process of realization and about how the realization affects your own personal choices.  Whenever we're dealing with corners of the human condition that involve processes and the resulting choices, games soar in comparison to other mediums in terms of power.  A painting or film might leave the aforementioned question floating in your mind as you leave the museum or theater, but a game allows you to explore your own personal answer to that question right within the context of the work itself.

The other half of my realization is that games pale in comparison to other mediums when dealing with aspects of the human condition that don't involve processes and choices.  For example, I don't think we could make a good game that was *just* about the loss of a loved one.  Noticed that Passage is not just about that.

So, as I'm combing my own personal experience and feelings for new game design ideas, I've been throwing lots of ideas out when I determine that they don't involve processes and choices.  As it turns out, most of the personal things that I'm really itching to express as an artist don't fit this bill.  This is then a bit frustrating, and it made me question games as a medium a bit, but now I think I understand that each medium has its own strengths and weaknesses.  We shouldn't hate our medium for its weaknesses, but instead love it for its strengths.
>>>>