I wrote "The Case For Labectomy" in a straight-faced satirical style inspired by Jonathan Swift's classic essay from 1729, "A Modest Proposal."  In that kind of satire, maintaining one's "poker face" throughout is essential.  Thus, my essay was originally published without the final sentences of explanation---sentences which connect the essay to circumcision and reveal its satirical intentions.  However, without an explicit connection to circumcision, I seemed to be getting responses of complete confusion from roughly half of my readers.  

Swift rounds out his essay without revealing that he is kidding.  He is actually *not* advocating the consumption of excess human infants to alleviate famine, but he never drops his poker face.  Even though I notice the satire in Swift's essay, I sometimes wonder what he really thought about the matter:  maybe he actually believed in his seemingly-absurd and grotesque proposal.  Perhaps these kinds of doubts in readers' minds are signs of truly brilliant satire.  The satire is so good that we are not sure that it is satire.  On the other hand, this confusion could be a sign of satire that has failed---readers are so distracted by the absurd suggestions that they miss the underlying point.  

I did not want my point to be lost, so I sacrificed a bit of satirical purity by adding a brief explanation at the end.  With that explanation in place, everyone suddenly "got" it.  Before long, my little "pamphlet," perched in an obscure corner of the web and never announced or publicized, took on a life of its own. 

At the time, I was in a graduate program at UC Santa Cruz for computer science, starting on my second year of a four-year program.  One day, a fellow student, who I had known for more than a year, walked into class and said, "Jason, I saw your 'Labectomy' essay go by on my circumcision mailing list.  It was great!"  

Through the conversation that followed, I learned that this fellow student was also an anti-circumcision activist.  He and I were both in the process of restoring our foreskins.  He was even more passionate about the issue than me and was considering legal action against the doctor who circumcised him---he talked about precedent cases and statutes of limitations.

Of course, foreskin restoration is not generally something that you discuss with your fellow Ph.D. students.  This student and I were secretly struggling with the process of restoration in parallel, sometimes even sitting next to each other in class, and never realizing our common connection.  I cannot begin to count how many times I would feel my elastic band slip off in the middle of class.  I recall watching the floor as I stood up at the end of class to "catch" the elastic band as it fell out of my pant leg.  I even recall retracing my steps to find my elastic band sitting in the middle of a public walkway on campus.  This fellow student was going through many of the same ordeals.

Writing is often championed for its ability to connect people across time and space.  In this case, it helped to connect two people who were sitting right next to each other.

 
      
