Economic stress, food insecurity, spare time due to job loss, and renewed interest in environmental issues---these factors have converged to make local food more viable and attractive than ever before.  Farmers' markets and CSAs are springing up like mushrooms around the country.  A local food campaign, spearheaded by Campbell's, could have a significant positive impact on the nutrition of the food insecure.


The campaign will have the following goals, to be accomplished in order:


--Teaching consumers where their local farmers' markets and CSA farms are located.

--Teaching consumers about what is in season in their region at a given time (strawberries in June and July, not May or August).

--Encouraging consumers to ask where food is grown and who grew it.

--Encouraging consumers to taste the improved flavor and quality of local foods.

--Teaching consumers how to prepare and cook unfamiliar local foods.

--Teaching consumers about the cost savings potential of local foods.

--Encouraging consumers to become regular customers of farmers' markets and CSAs.

--Encouraging consumers to start backyard gardens or join community garden efforts.



These goals will be accomplished through two one-year programs in succession.  The first program will encourage a large group of people to consume more local foods.  The second program will focus on a smaller group of people selected from the first program---those that seem most interested and dedicated---and help them start their own backyard gardens or join community gardens.




|| Campbell's Summer of Local Food ||

This program will drive consumers to farmers' markets and CSAs through free food samples, a mobile phone collection game, and a free box of local vegetables for those who complete the game.

A dynamic, database-backed website (PHP/MySQL) will be used to coordinate the following activities.


--Coordinating farmers--

Starting in the winter prior to the program season, the program will recruit participating farmers through the help of state farmers' market federations and a selective direct mailing.  Farmers will sign up for the program through the website.  They will register their farm location, market locations/times, and what food they expect to grow and sell in the upcoming season.  They will be asked to flag some of their foods to be available as free samples during the season.

Prior to the market season, each farmer will be sent a packet of collectible code cards (described in detail below) to be handed out with the foods they will be offering as samples during the season.  Farmers will also be provided with program signage.

Throughout the market season, farmers will update their entries on the website with information about the food samples that they will be bringing to market each week.  Food samples will be one full unit of a given food (one tomato, one ear of corn, one carrot, one small bag of lettuce, etc.), approximately 50 cents worth, and a code card will be handed out with each sample.

In exchange for their active, season-long participation, each farmer will be compensated with $0.50 for each code card redeemed by a consumer before season end (redemption method described below).

Participating farmers will also accept coupons for free boxes of vegetables (as described below).  Farmers can mail all collected coupons into the program at the end of the season and receive $20 compensation for each coupon redeemed.



--Driving consumers--

Consumers will be able to access the program either through the website or through a free, downloadable application on their cell phones.  Consumers will provide their location information and respond to a brief survey at the start of the program.

Consumers will have the goal of sampling a complete set of foods for their region.  The definition of a "complete set" will vary by region depending on which foods are offered by participating regional farmers.

The consumer view of the program application will contain local food calendars tailored to specific regions.  Each time they access the program through mobile or web, consumers will see a list of foods that they still need to sample and information about participating farmers who have those food samples on offer that week.  Farmer information will specify market location and integrate with map views on mobile phones.

Consumers earn collectible code cards by approaching participating farmers and picking up samples of local foods.

Each card will have a code on it that can be entered on the website or through the mobile application to update a consumer's progress in the database and unlock new content.  When a consumers "wins" by collecting a complete set of codes, he or she will be mailed coupon for a free box of local harvest vegetables (one week supply, a $20 value) that can be spent with any participating farmer.

Codes entered into the mobile application will also unlock virtual seeds for use in the gardening video game (described below).


--Collectible code cards and unlockable content--

Each card will feature program logos and information along with a code corresponding to the local food that the consumer sampled.

Entering a code into the mobile application or the website will unlock a variety of digital content corresponding to that food, including recipes and information from Dan Barber.


--Gardening video game--

Both the website and mobile application will feature a garden simulation video game.  Each code collected will unlock that food's seeds for use in a virtual garden.  The game will simulate the choices and difficulties of growing food in a limited amount of space.  Each game will customize itself with location information to match the true climate and realtime weather data of the player's region.  The virtual gardens in the game will be persistent and  simulate time passing between plays.  A virtual garden that is not tended regularly will fall victim to neglect.




|| Campbell's Summer of Gardening ||

The second one-year program will focus on helping consumers garden for themselves, either in the backyard or in community gardens (for those living in urban environments).

Successful gardening takes a significant amount of interest and dedication, and resources should not be wasted on people who are unlikely to use them fully.  Participation data from the first year program, along with survey answers, will be used to select a group of people who have expressed particular interest in local food issues.

The program will start in the fall preceding the gardening season (the fall of the Summer of Food).  Additional surveys and other respond-backs will be used to select people with genuine, sustained interest in gardening.  Each selected participant will be provided with a free backyard compost bin (a $35 retail value, see http://www.geosystemsonline.com/geobin.html) and composting instructions.  Their goal will be to produce sufficient compost to start their backyard garden the following spring.

That spring, participants will be given regionally-tailored information about garden preparation and indoor seed-starting.  They will be provided with a set of seeds appropriate for their regions, further selected based on the foods they sampled and enjoyed during the previous Summer of Local Food.

Participants will be digitally guided through the process of deturfing, digging, and preparing a 4 foot by 6 foot organic garden.

Participants who do not have space for a backyard garden will be connected with a local community garden effort.





|| Pilot Programs and Ramp-up ||

The programs described above are time-sensitive and seasonally dependent.  A substantial amount of ramp-up work needs to be done before launching these programs, such as coordinating participating farmers and developing software infrastructure.  The window of opportunity for launching a 2009 "Summer of Local Food" has already passed.

However, a smaller-scale pilot program, focused on the fall harvest in one or two regions, would be feasible.  This would allow us to deploy and test software systems and gage consumer interest.  It would also help build consumer momentum for a nation-wide Summer of Local Food program in 2010.

"Campbell's Local Harvest" could launch in September in New York City and anytime in Los Angeles (due to the extended growing season there).

A pilot Summer of Gardening program could follow in those two cities in 2010.
