Summary:

A Theory of Durational Tolerance

An important part of any creative work is audience engagement:  keeping them there and keeping them focused for as long as necessary for the work to have whatever effect it's trying to have.  Other mediums have various features and limitations in terms of how long audiences can engage before their minds start to wander.  Games seem to reign supreme in terms of long-form audience engagement, but why?  And how can we leverage this incredible audience engagement for deeper, more expressive purposes without subverting the expression itself?

A Theory of Durational Tolerance

1)  Boredom has survival value, since it helps you avoid an unproductive situation.  But if we take a hard look at some of the so-called "expressive games" that some of us have been making recently, we find that while they might be interesting to experience and analyze, they're boring to *play*, at least for a reasonable fraction of the audience. Yeah, these games don't have tense shooting action, ... 

2)  and I don't think they should, because action isn't the only gameplay that's not boring.  And I also don't think they should necessarily be "fun", either.  But here's the bottom line:  no matter how profound your expression is, if your audience is drifting out or walking out before you want them to, you lose them.  So we've got to figure out how to keep them there, and keep them engaged, ...

3)  while we do whatever expressive stuff we're trying to do.  And we need to engage them in a way that doesn't fight with the expressive stuff.  Like we don't want a spoon full of sugar along with the medicine, but we want fundamentally delicious medicine, and I don't think we know how to do that yet.  It's helpful to think about other mediums, like, how do they engage people, and for how long?  Consider painting, ...

4)  like if you spend an afternoon at the museum, walking around.  How long might you spend looking at each painting?  30 seconds or 60 seconds, max?  Even one that totally blows your mind won't hold you much for longer than that.  But music can engage you for longer, with most songs lasting several minutes, and some lasting dozens of minutes.

5)  But music only engages your ears, which leaves the rest of your mind free to do other things.  But if you take away those parallel activities, it becomes really hard to stay focused on a piece of music for longer than a few minutes.  On the other hand, movies engage both your eyes and your ears, along with a good portion of your brain, which makes it impossible to do anything more involved than ...

6)   knitting while watching a movie.  And you can tolerate movies for much longer, with each one lasting several hours, and it seems like the additional sensory engagement somehow makes longer tolerance possible, though certainly not guaranteed. Which leads us to content, which obviously matters a lot, and movies provide a great example, ...

7)  since all of them engage your eyes and ears, but some of them are boring while others are not.  So engaging your eyes and ears by itself is not enough to keep you there for several hours.  So what's the magic ingredient for movies?  If you're excited by the limitless possibilities of the film medium, the answer is a bit disappointing and old-fashioned, ...

8) 'cause the ingredient seems to be "plot."  The avant garde used to resist the necessity of plot in movies, but over time, it seems like they mostly gave up, 'cause even today's most boundary-pushing art films embrace plot.  Okay so it might be experimental plot, but it's still plot. And your engagement with plot may also have survival value.  'Cause if you sit on a park bench and watch a street scene, ...

9)   you mind'll start to wander.  But if a couple starts having an argument on the sidewalk, you can't help but watch closely.  Somethin's going down.  And you might learn somethin' that gives you a social advantage in the future.  And as long as somethin's going down, you can watch closely for several hours.  That's plot. And if we add that magic ingredient to music, ...

10)   we can pay attention to a given song much longer.  Like Arlo Guthrie's "Alice's Restaurant" is over 18 minutes long, and it's pretty easy to listen to the whole thing without drifting, even if you don't have a parallel activity.  Why?  Because it has a plot.  Now we can apply this same line of thought to games, ...

11)  'cause they engage your eyes and your ears like movies, but they also engage your body through interactivity.  And because they require active consumption, they seem to monopolize more of your brain than any passive medium. So you can't really do anything else while playing a game, not even knit.  And this multi-channel engagement can increase your durational tolerance from a few hours ...

12)   to a few dozen hours, and even for a single play session with no interruptions, four hours is common, and we've all had spent a whole day playing a single game.  You know, we lose sleep over these things---they can be that engaging. With movies, "plot" isn't enough to engage you like this for a dozen straight hours, ...

13)  and plot isn't enough with games either, 'cause it seems like it's just not potent enough as a magic ingredient.  So what ingredient can enable the massive durational tolerance we find in games?  The only answer I came up with was "Challenge".  And your incredible engagement response when you're faced with a challenge might also have survival value, ...

14)  'cause yeah, if you're passively watching a scene where something is going down, it's useful to pay attention for a while, 'cause you might learn something.  But if somethin's going down that you personally've gotta overcome, the survival value in staying focused is obvious. It's like watching a couple having an argument vs. having an argument with a loved one yourself.  

15)  'Cause yeah, you might be engaged by watching someone else's argument passively for a few hours, but you could actively engage with your own personal argument all day, or as long as the argument lasts.  Maybe days, if need-be.  Or months.  'Cause that's what a challenge can do that to you.  Now I'm not saying that games *should* last for dozens of hours, ...

16)  though it's interesting that challenge *can* engage you for such long sessions.  But I think that once a work monopolizes so many channels, your brain somehow demands challenge, like "You're asking me to actually put effort into this?."  Even for short sessions, you know, even for as little as 5 minutes.  So if a work monopolizes both your eyes and ears, like a movie, your brain yearns for plot.  

17)  And if a work demands that you actively *do* something on top of that, your brains yearns for that activity to be challenging.  We can try to fight against challenge in games, but it may be as hopeless as avant garde film makers fighting against plot in movies.  Which is disappointing, right?  I mean, challenge is old-fashioned, and it just seems so limiting.

18)  But if we look at how filmmakers have embraced plot, we can see that it hasn't been too limiting for them, 'cause movies have conveyed a huge variety of plots, and filmmakers have figured out how to weave their expression *through* those various plots. So our befuddlement may stem from the limited spectrum of game challenges that we've invented so far, ...

19)  like Jumping?  Shooting?  Racing?  Puzzles?  And how can we weave nuanced expression through those challenges in a cohesive way?  Like, imagine if the only movie plot we knew about was "bank heist,"  and filmmakers struggled to load a large variety of expression on top of that one plot.  Yeah it would feel limiting, and they might be tempted ...

20)   to abandon plot altogether to circumvent that limit.  And that's where we are at right now.  But the solution isn't to throw out challenge.  Instead we've gotta expand it beyond an engaging gimmick into a potent, expressive tool in its own right.


"Walk right, get old, blah, blah, blah.  Boring as hell."  --Gavin, Destructoid Comment, December 2007

[Slide: Pierre-Auguste Renoir, Le Moulin de la Galette]