Handed out for Halloween 2003


In the fall of 1891, Walter James Hanson, owner of a farm on the north east side of town, employed over 30 temporary farm hands to help with the harvest.  Earl Matthews, a 16-year-old boy who lived on the south end, worked full-time during the months of September and October as one of the hands.  

On November 3, at the end of their last day of work, the hands stayed late on the farm to celebrate together.  At 10 o'clock, as their bon fire died down, they decided to play "goat and wolves" and drew straws.  Matthews drew the short straw and was forced to be the goat.  The rest of the hands were the wolves.  

Matthews was allowed to run into the dark field first for a count of sixty, and then the wolves would come out to hunt him down.  Apparently, in the darkness of the new moon, Matthews could not see clearly as he ran.  When the wolves caught up with thim, they found him impaled through the chest on a split-rail fence at the edge of the field.  

Upon seeing this, the other hands ran from the field in shock and headed home.  On of the hands, Jacob Staufer, returned to the field the next morning.  He could not find Matthews, and the fence post bore no trace of him---not even a single drop of blood.  Matthews was never seen again.

- - - -

On November 3, 1991, two Potsdam boys were walking at night through a field on the north east side of town.  As they neared the center of the field, they heard someone coming toward them.  In the light of the full moon, they could see a pale figure in tattered rags limping urgently.  As the figure moved closer, they saw what looked like a massive, decaying wound in the figure's chest.  At this point, fear overtook the boys, and they fled from the field.

Since then, several other sightings have been reported in this field, including one on November 3, 1995;  one on November 1, 1999;  one on November 3, 2001;  and one by a Potsdam Police Officer on October 31, 2002.

No official explanation has been given for this phenomenon.