October 14, 2005

Importing EPS files into Sketch documents results in a crude bitmap rendition
being inserted.  This foils the plan for the back cover, which was looking
rather nice so far (with the EPS typesetting as output by LaTeX).

Don't see anything about this in the Sketch release notes...

Maybe it's because we're importing a PS file and not a true EPSF:
what's the difference between these two?


Maybe it's because it is being rotated.



October 15, 2005

Figured out that Sketch has trouble importing PS files (imports them as 
bitmaps for some reason... maybe because they are not encapsulated, so they
must be rendered to a fixed-size bitmap before being inserted?)

Calling dvips with the -E option solves this problem... AND it creates a nice,
tight bounding box as well (no need to tweak the geometry package options so
much).



October 16, 2005

Noticed banding in EPS gradient for back page.
Increased Sketch's gradient steps to 256 in config.py

Funny that PostScript doesn't have built-in gradient support.
Essentially, you need to build gradients with bands in a resolution-dependent
way... ugg.


October 18, 2005

Noticed that 15.png and 25.png were in RGB.  Changed to gray.


Got all EPS files generated.  Ready to send to printer?

Need an EPS mock-up of die-cuts with comments about physical sizes

Trying to batch-convert to screen-PNGs for the web using ScriptFU in GIMP.

Proper resolution:

669x542 (at 72dpi)




December 8, 2005

Found/fixed a few bugs

--Text on Xris the baker page was not centered
--Same picture duplicated on pages 1 and 2 (recally trying to swap those 
  pictures, must have muffed the swap... had to fetch backup copy of old 02.png
  from the iMac)

Figured out how to generate custom-sized PDFs with ps2pdf... it looks great,
and is only 12MiB in size (the PS version is 289MiB... yikes!)

Added sample die cut images with red cut lines.

Printing the PDF on 2-sided pages to make a prototype.
Printing is taking *forever*... many minutes per page.


Files to give to printer:

All page EPS files:
 cover.eps
 01.eps -- 28.eps
 back_cover.eps

Die cut files:
 die_cuts.eps
 die_cuts.jpg

Die cut placement samples
 cut_placement_cover.png
 cut_placement_01.png

Final full book PDF file:
 full_book.pdf



December 9, 2005

Proofread paper copies.  Ready to send to printer.

Assembled all files.

Typeset an instruction sheet (printed out)
Also printed out the labeled die cut. 

tagging files as first_printing