What is voluntary simplicity? Voluntary simplicity is not something you can look up in a dictionary to find a clear, concise definition of. It's something that is constantly evolving in a person. For me, the first step toward simplicity was to decrease my dependance on material things. It has taken me more than five years to get to where I am now, and I still need a lot of work.   

I grew up in a household where we had more than what we needed. I always had the latest, greatest new toys. I was always wearing the latest fashions. Our family was the first in the neighborhood to get a VCR, and my dad raced out to buy an Apple II C computer as soon as they were released in 1984. Despite all of these posessions, we always wanted more. Every Christmas, after the shreds of ripped-up wrapping paper flooded the room, we confirmed that all the gifts had in fact been opened, and there was always a feeling of disapointment. There were other things that we wanted in addition to what we received, and our piles and piles of gifts just weren't good enough. My point is that, as humans, we always want more---at least I always did. Now I understand that all those material things just didn't matter.  They never really made me happy.

My husband, Jason, grew up in a similar situation and shares my feelings on this point:  no matter how much material stuff people might have, they always want more. No matter how much money millionares might have, they are not happy because they have not reached billionaire status.

So how did we do it? How did we get rid of it all? Well, we didn't. Often times people hear that we live a simple life but are confused when they find out that we have three computers. Living simply doesn't mean that you can't have material things. Jason is a computer programmer who is very passionate about his work. So it only makes sense for us to have computers. What we did was eliminate the things that we felt that we didn't really need. 

There was a free table at my last job where people could leave or take free things (another great place to give stuff away is www.freecycle.org). I made a comittment to myself to put something on that free table every day for the last three months that I worked there. At first I was putting small, trivial things like a little stuffed animal or some stationary that I had for years and knew I would never use. But toward the end, I was putting nice pieces of china, a boombox, a nice telephone. Watching people dive for these things and sometimes fight over them got me to see how unimportant they were---I didn't want material things to make me crazy with greed. 

Jason and I were married in Ithaca, NY. Shortly after, we needed to move to Santa Cruz, CA. We had talked about selling our car once we moved, and I knew it would have been difficult for me to do this (especially since I was pregnant). But some higher power helped make it easy for me. Our car died when we were moving across the country. We had to junk it in Minnisota and rent a car to continue on to California. What was also helpful for us was that we had to move often right after we got married. Each time we moved, we gave more and more stuff away. High rent in California finally forced us to live in a 300 sqare foot apartment (which is where Mez was born). 

When we decided to leave California, we came up with our criteria and then started looking at towns all over the country. Our four criteria were: 1) A place where we could buy a livable house for a maximun of $50K; 2) A place where we could live without a car; 3) A university town; and 4) A town with a thriving food co-op. Potsdam, NY was the only town in the country that met all of our criteria. 

Now we are settled into a small house that we own here in Potsdam. We are two stay-at-home parents. We work here and there as needed to make ends meet. We split up the day with Jason having free time in the morning and me having free time in the afternoon. Jason writes free software and accepts donations for downloads on his website, www.jasonrohrer.n3.net. I do a little childcare off and on and am currently looking for work. We have savings that act as a buffer when we are not taking in what we need to survive. We created a tight budget and figured out how much money we needed to spend on things such as property taxes, utilities, food, and entertainment. We now spend a total of $10K a year. 

Our total food budget is $423 a month. This may sound like a lot, but everything we buy is organic. By cooking all of our food from scratch, we save an enormous amount of money.  We eat a vegan diet and are able to buy dried beans, grains and nuts in bulk from our food co-op. There we volunteer two hours a month, which gives us a 10% discount on all of our purchases. Each year our backyard garden gets bigger. In a few years, the fruit trees that we planted in our yard will start to produce more and more fruit. 

Only a small portion of our budget is devoted to entertainment, so we are forced to find as many free things to do as we can. We almost never go out to eat at restaurants. We almost never go out to the theater to see a movie. We have a wonderful Community Performance Series in town, and I am able to volunteer my time in exchange for free tickets for me and my family. 

In terms of clothing, we have been able to find almost everything we need as hand-me-downs from friends or from our local thrift shop, garage sales, or the various semi-annual rummage sales. 
We are constantly trying to find ways to cut corners. One book that offers many great suggestions to cut costs is The Complete Tightwad Gazette by Amy Dacyczyn. 

Our home is not pretty, but it's functional and small. There are many things that I would love to fix about our home. I am doing these repairs slowly, by myself, when I have a little extra money to spare. I could go to work full time and pay professionals to fix many things at once, but then I would miss out on so much of Mez's life as he grows up. 

When I talk to parents of older children, they always say, "Enjoy this time....it goes by so fast". I am taking their advice seriously. When I walk in the pouring rain with my three-year-old on an early weekday morning, not in a hurry to get anywhere, I see the simplicity I created. I see people in a hurry trying to get to work on time. Rarely do I see true smiles on their faces. We're out just walking---just being---and not in a hurry, often times with no particular place to go. Sure, our clothes are a little worn. Mez's jogging stroller looks like it's about to fall apart. But we enjoy what we are doing in that particular moment.