Your Players Don't Have to Hate Each Other:  Making Complete Strangers Say 'I Love You,' and Mean It


Working on submission here:

http://gdc2019.callforsubmission.gdc4p.com/edit.php?s=0ZP5OnyGIb76R95MPZ1b



People online hate each other.  This is taken as an axiom.  Behind a digital mask, and through a limited channel of communication, the worst elements of human nature are given room to unfurl.

Add game systems into the online mix, along with their usual player demographic, and it only gets worse, with many online games suffering from player communities that are notoriously negative.

But what if it's not human nature?

When the design of my game One Hour One Life first came to public attention a few years ago, it was met with skeptical jeers.  A game where you're born online as a helpless baby, dependent on the good will of a total stranger for your very survival?  Good luck with that, pal!

Every baby will be left to starve---or even worse, murdered outright by trolls-turned-parents.  Why would strangers take care of each other?

But the exact opposite happened.  Players were generally good to each other.  Total strangers helped each other, taught each other, and cared for each other.  Some of them even expressed feelings of familial love.

At the time of writing, the longest continuous family line lasted 288 generations, more than four solid days of total strangers caring for each other.  How is this possible, given human nature?

Here's the key insight:  the usual negative social behaviors of people in online systems is not an inevitable consequence of human nature, but instead a rational response to characteristics inherent in the design of those systems.  People aren't idiots.  If negative social behavior is optimal, they will choose that behavior.

But if you design a system where a different kind of behavior is optimal, they will naturally gravitate toward that behavior.

The design of One Hour One Life makes caring optimal by reducing the long-term individual benefit of individual accomplishment.  Everyone only lives for an hour before they get old and die.  All of their progress is lost---unless the next generation survives to carry that progress forward.

Thus, the only meaning in the game comes from being part of a bigger picture, as a branch in the family tree.  A hermit's life is gone without a trace in an hour, and so is the life of a player who lets all of their babies starve to death.

The end result is scene that would seem impossible in an online game filled with total strangers:  at the end of their hour play session, a more experienced player walks around a playfield, says goodbye to everyone, gives the newer players kindly advice, and eventually says, "I love you all," before logging off.

Recast the above situation as an elderly person at the end of their life, and we can see how leaning thematically on real-life situations and traditions helps to make the optimal behavior all that more obvious to players.

But theme is not enough, if the underlying systems encourage thematically-inconsistent behaviors.





Short Description:

Supposed axiom:  People online hate each other.  Behind a digital mask, and through a limited channel of communication, the worst elements of human nature are given room to unfurl.  But what if our designs our to blame, instead of human nature?  People are generally rational, so their behavior in the online systems is likely to be a rational response.  That means we can we can potentially design different systems that foster other social behaviors.  The experimental multiplayer civilization-building game "One Hour one Life" does exactly this.  By throwing total online strangers into gameplay situations where they inherently depend on each other, and by redefining success in terms of long-term group endeavors that are out of reach for any individual player acting alone, the game brings out the best in people.  They even say "I love you" to each other, and mean it.

 

Takeaway:

Online games don't necessarily spell doom for positive social interactions between strangers.  We can change our designs to fix these problems.  We need to make the desired behaviors optimal.


Intended Audience:

Anyone looking to improve social behavior in their online systems.



Speaking history and links:

--GDC 2018, 3rd highest rated talk in all summits, out of 113 talks.  (Don't Break the Chain, 85% Excellent)
--Presented at GDC EGW three times over the years (r=4.89 in 2011, 77% excellent in 2013, 66% excellent in 2016)
--Won the final GDC Game Design Challenge in 2013 with A Game for Someone (86% excellent)
--GDC Game Design Challenge 2012 (87% excellent, included in GDC card deck)
--Keynote at MIGS, 2011
--Won the GDC Game Design Challenge in 2011 with Chain World (r=4.73)
--GDC Microtalk in 2011(r=4.72)
--Keynote at GDC Serious Games Summit, 2010
--Spoke at GDC Indie Summit in 2009

Invited speaker at MIT, Yale, Berkeley, NYU, CMU, Drexel, GATech, Hastings, Champlain, Hallmark, Clarkson, GDX, Project Horseshoe.

Links:
http://hcsoftware.sourceforge.net/jason-rohrer/
http://onehouronelife.com/



Bio:

I've been making games for fourteen years. Along the way, I started a religion, made Clint Hocking cry, and buried an $8000 hunk of titanium in the Nevada desert.


Game Credits:

Since 2004, I have designed, programmed, and released 19 games: Transcend, Cultivation, Passage, Gravitation, Perfectionism, Idealism, Police Brutality, Immortality, Regret, i45hg, Crude Oil, Between, Primrose, Sleep Is Death, Inside a Star-filled Sky, and Diamond Trust of London, The Castle Doctrine, Cordial Minuet, and One Hour One Life.
